a) Fluoride levels in drinking water sources in Saudi Arabia correlate significantly with caries experience and prevalence of dental fluorosis. b) Appropriate fluoride concentration for drinking water in Saudi Arabia may be about 0.6 ppm.
The prevalence of dental caries can be lowered by adequate fluoride concentration in drinking water; However, dental caries and fluorosis would prevail when exposed to high fluoride concentration.
Based on these results, fluoride concentration in drinking water should be monitored in the future. In parallel, a caries-preventive programme should be developed, as high concentrations of fluoride in drinking water alone do not result in acceptable caries levels.
The high CFI values of 1.36 and 1.67 in villages A and B may relate to the main side-dishes eaten in the two villages. Of these, 88% contained fish, 68% dried salted fish and 61% a type of shellfish gathered locally.
The prevalence of fluorosis was found to be highest in fluoridated Cork. The prolonged use of fluoride supplements was also found to be a significant risk indicator associated with fluorosis.
A suitable trade-off between caries and fluorosis appears to occur around 0.7 ppm F. Data from this study suggest that a reconsideration of the policies concerning the most appropriate concentrations for water fluoridation might be appropriate for the United States.
In all the 144 water samples from ten villages fluoride level was higher than permissible limits. The boys had greater prevalence of dental fluorosis over the girls.
The NSW Teen Dental Survey provided state-wide data that will contribute to the national picture on adolescent oral health. The mean DMFT score of 1.2 is similar to the national caries experience data for this age group from the Australian Child Dental Health Survey in 2009.
This study provided evidence that increased use of fluoride toothpaste may be a risk factor for dental fluorosis. The results suggest prudent use of dentifrice by young children to minimize the risk of fluorosis.
The findings of this study conducted in 1987 in Japan parallel those reported by Dean et al. in the early 1940s.
Water fluoridation was found to be related to significantly reduced caries experience in the majority of AHSs where comparisons could be made, and to benefit all socio-economic strata of the community.
The effectiveness of fissure sealants in community-based programmes may be further improved when coupled with increased lifetime exposure to optimally fluoridated water.
This study demonstrates the continued community effectiveness of water fluoridation and provides support for the extension of this important oral health intervention to populations currently without access to fluoridated water.
These results suggest that the fluoridated water is not an important risk factor for enamel fluorosis, since the prevalence of enamel fluorosis was low in the cohorts -36, -27, and -18 when fluoridated water was used.
Community water fluoridation remains a cost-effective preventive measure in Australia.
The prevalence of dental fluorosis was higher in the city with better control of fluoride levels in the water supply, however, this higher prevalence was not related with children's satisfaction with the appearance of their teeth.
Prepared gaseous drink and tea consumption, age in relation to the exhibition of periodic applications of fluoride and the area of residence are the main risk factors for dental fluorosis.
This study confirms previous ones in showing the benefits of water fluoridation. Diffuse opacities of upper incisors affected relatively few subjects in either of the two areas.
Tooth decay reduction observed in the Blue Mountains corresponds to high rates reported elsewhere and demonstrates the substantial benefits of water fluoridation.
It was found that there has been a decline in the level of caries experience in young Australian adults when the data from this study were compared to other ad hoc studies.
This results of this study show children living in a fluoridated area to have significantly better oral health compared to those not in a fluoridated area. These differences are greater for Maori and Pacific children and children of low socio-economic status.
The results showed that: (1) The prevalence of dental fluorosis was significantly lowered by the new source of drinking water. (2) Drinking water, even with 1.2 mg/L fluoride, may cause dental fluorosis during the period of tooth mineralization.
The addition of fluoride to public water supplies was an important ally in the improvement of the oral health of Baixo Guandu inhabitants.
Caries prevalence was lower in MF than in LF rural areas of Paraíba. Caries and sugar intake seems to be lower in rural areas than in urban areas of Paraíba with similar fluoride levels in the drinking water.
These findings suggest that the decline of caries has little to do with professional preventive measures performed in dental clinics.
A decrease in the prevalence and severity of DDE among the maxillary incisor teeth of the children corresponded to the reductions in the concentration of fluoride in the water during the time of enamel development.
The programme had positive effects on gingival bleeding score and oral health behaviour of children, and on oral health knowledge and attitudes of mothers and teachers. No positive effect on dental caries incidence rate was demonstrated by the OHE programme.
Focal nerve-sparing cryosurgery, in which one neurovascular bundle is spared, appears to preserve potency in most patients without compromising cancer control. These preliminary results warrant further study.
This therapy was convenient and well tolerated.
In an eight-week trial, an oral controlled-release preparation of budesonide at an optimal daily dose of 9 mg was well tolerated and effective against active Crohn's disease of the ileum and proximal colon.
The authors found a long-term pain-relieving effect of needle acupuncture compared with true placebo in some patients with chronic nociceptive low back pain.
Clinical results show that deep stimulation has a better analgesic effect when compared with superficial stimulation.
This study provides additional data on the potential role of EA in the treatment of LBP, and indicates that the combination of EA and back exercise might be an effective option in the treatment of pain and disability associated with chronic LBP.
Acupuncture relieved pain and diminished disability in low-back pain during pregnancy better than physiotherapy.
The quality of the design, execution, and reporting of randomized controlled trials should be improved, to establish strong evidence for the effectiveness of the various therapeutic interventions for acute and chronic low back pain.
Our findings confirm that short-term therapeutic effects of music listening results in substantial reduction in physiological stress responses arising from anxiety in mechanically ventilated patients.
Several safety concerns exist with herbal products including lack of safety data, absence of quality-control requirements for potency and purity, and lenient labeling standards.
In patients with chronic hepatitis B infection, the clearance of HBeAg after treatment with interferon alfa is associated with improved clinical outcomes.
The study suggests that dronabinol was able to reduce nocturnal motor activity and agitation in severely demented patients. Thus, it appears that dronabinol may be a safe new treatment option for behavioral and circadian disturbances in dementia.
In this 12-week trial, donepezil was not more effective than placebo in treating agitation in patients with Alzheimer's disease. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Tai Chi provides short-term benefits after TBI, with rigorous outcome measurement needed to examine long-term benefits.
TCC is a moderate intensity exercise that is beneficial to cardiorespiratory function, immune capacity, mental control, flexibility, and balance control; it improves muscle strength and reduces the risk of falls in the elderly.
TCD did not improve glucose homeostasis or insulin sensitivity measured 72 h after the last bout of exercise. More intense forms of Tai Chi may be required to produce the body composition changes associated with metabolic benefits in type 2 diabetes.
Green tea supplementation did not significantly reduce body weight in obese women with PCOS, nor did it alter the glucose or lipid metabolism.
Oolong tea could decrease body fat content and reduce body weight through improving lipid metabolism. Chronic consumption of oolong tea may prevent against obesity.
Placebo acupuncture was associated with a significantly higher overall pregnancy rate when compared with real acupuncture. Placebo acupuncture may not be inert. Trial registered with HKClinicalTrials.com: number HKCTR-236.
Current preliminary evidence suggests that acupuncture given with embryo transfer improves rates of pregnancy and live birth among women undergoing in vitro fertilisation.
Most new and recurrent LBP episodes are mild. Less than one third of cases resolve annually, and more than 20% recur within 6 months. LBP episodes are more recurrent and persistent in older adults.
Health care expenditures for back pain in the United States in 1998 were substantial. The expenditures demonstrated wide variations among individuals with different clinical, demographic, and socioeconomic characteristics.
There is no firm evidence for the presence or absence of a causal relationship between radiographic findings and nonspecific low back pain.
High-calcium milk enriched with potassium has a small hypotensive effect in healthy people aged over 40 years.
Calcium supplementation of 1 g/d does not produce biologically significant effects on body weight, and its hypotensive effect is small and transient in most women.
Results from this study suggest that 24 weeks of supplementation with 1000 mg ca/d did not have any effect on weight, body composition, insulin resistance and blood pressure beyond what can be achieved in an energy restricted diet in obese adults.
The present research agenda insufficiently supports the goal of public health nutrition, which is to ensure the implementation of cost-effective nutrition programmes and policies. A more rational approach to define research priorities is needed.
As compared with vaseline gauze, calcium alginate appears to be more appropriate for topical treatment of diabetic foot lesions in terms of both healing and tolerance.
The semipermeable polymeric membrane dressing is a useful therapeutic option for treating uncomplicated chronic diabetic foot ulcers.
Dermagraft was associated with more complete and rapid healing in diabetic foot ulcers. The recurrence data may indicate an improved quality of wound healing.
Wounds in which moisture content was regulated with TheraGauze showed more rapid change in wound area and a higher percentage of wounds achieving closure at 12 and 20 weeks regardless of whether becaplermin was used.
The results confirm the hypothesis that the use of protease-modulating dressings in patients with neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers leads to better tissue regeneration than good wound care.
Carboxyl-methyl-cellulose dressings were shown to be safe, effective and well tolerated in the management of non-ischaemic, non-infected deep diabetic foot ulcers.
PHMB foam dressing successfully reduced chronic wound pain and bacterial burden.
CT-102 significantly accelerated wound closure in diabetic leg ulcers when administered as part of a comprehensive program for the healing of chronic ulcers.
RGD peptide matrix treatment promoted and accelerated the healing of chronic diabetic foot ulcers to a significant degree.
The felted foam technique appears to be at least as effective as conventional plantar ulcer treatment. It may be a useful alternative in treating neuropathic foot ulceration, especially in patients who are not able to avoid weight-bearing reliably.
More than 2% of community-based diabetic patients develop new foot ulcers each year. The neuropathy disability score, 10 g monofilament and palpation of foot pulses are recommended as screening tools in general practice.
LED is common in the U.S. and twice as high among individuals with diagnosed diabetes. These conditions disproportionately affect the elderly, non-Hispanic blacks, and Mexican Americans.
The evidence is too weak to recommend any particular antimicrobial agent. Large studies are needed of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of antimicrobial interventions.
Increasing stage, regardless of grade, is associated with increased risk of amputation and prolonged ulcer healing time. The UT system's inclusion of stage makes it a better predictor of outcome.
The use of ulcer-free survival can be used as an indication of the effectiveness of foot ulcer management. It could be adopted as a measure to compare performance between different specialist units.
These findings indicate that the "diabetes epidemic" will continue even if levels of obesity remain constant. Given the increasing prevalence of obesity, it is likely that these figures provide an underestimate of future diabetes prevalence.
Diabetes-related amputation rates exhibit high regional variation, even after age, sex, and race adjustment. Future work should be directed to exploring sources of this variation.
H. pylori eradication therapy reduces the recurrence of peptic ulcer disease and is cost-effective.
Iron sulfate does not appear to be an effective empiric treatment for restless legs syndrome.
In children, the presence of PLMS is frequently associated with low serum iron and a tendency toward low serum ferritin levels. In addition, iron therapy is associated with clinical improvement in most of these patients.
It is concluded that there may be an iron-dopamine connection central to the pathophysiology of RLS for at least some if not most patients with this disorder.
IV FCM provided a safe and effective treatment for RLS that lasted for at least 24 weeks for some patients. Larger studies are needed to confirm these results.
Ferritin as a marker of iron storage may play an important role in the pathophysiology of RLS and may prove to be a biomarker for the development of augmentation under dopaminergic therapy.
The results of this study provide preliminary evidence that omega-3 fatty acids may be an effective treatment for children with autism.
Omega-3 fatty acids appear to be safe and might be helpful for children suffering from ASD. Further study is needed with a larger number of children in a double-blind design and with various doses of omega-3 fatty acids.
Our negative findings do not point toward a major effect of omega-3 FA supplementation on behavioral abnormalities in adults with severe autism. Further studies on larger sample sizes are warranted to shed more light on this important issue.
Cheese made of milk from cows grazed on alpine pastures had a more favorable fatty acid profile than all other cheese types. Alpine cheese may be a relevant source of ALA and other cardioprotective fatty acids.
Children with autism and ADHD/ADD appear to be at increased risk for bullying behaviors.
Adverse risk factors for urinary incontinence at three months postpartum are vaginal delivery, obesity and multiparity (> or = 5). Caesarean section and daily antenatal PFE appear to be protective, although not completely so.
Telephone-based peer support may effectively decrease depressive symptomatology among new mothers. The high maternal satisfaction with, and acceptance of, the intervention suggests that a larger trial is feasible.
Diverse psychosocial or psychological interventions do not significantly reduce the number of women who develop postnatal depression. The most promising intervention is the provision of intensive, professionally based postpartum support.
Counselling by health visitors is valuable in managing non-psychotic postnatal depression.
It is important to take social context into account in understanding depression after childbirth and in helping mothers who are depressed.
Resistant E. coli UTIs are symptomatic for longer and cause increased work load in general practice.
This trial documented the protective effect of fish oil supplements on the recurrence of coronary stenosis 6 months after PTCA. The study results suggest that a dietary intervention could be useful in preventing restenosis.
In conclusion, fish oil supplementation has a beneficial effect on blood pressure and serum triglycerides in patients treated for coronary artery disease.
Advice to eat modest amounts of fish has little effect on BP in men with coronary disease.
Supplementation with 5.1 g n-3 FA/day for six months, initiated at least two weeks prior to coronary angioplasty did not reduce the incidence of restenosis.
This was the largest of such trials to date, and a supplement of 8 g/d of omega-3 fatty acids failed to prevent the usual high rate of restenosis after PTCA. No adverse effects were attributable to this large daily supplement of omega-3 fatty acids.
Our study does not suggest that fish oil has beneficial effects on albuminuria, kidney function, blood pressure, and dyslipidemia in normotensive IDDM patients suffering from diabetic nephropathy.
Fish oil treatment for 2 years does not promote major favorable changes in the diameter of atherosclerotic coronary arteries.
These data support an inverse relation between incident type 2 diabetes and vegetable fat and substituting polyunsaturated fatty acids for saturated fatty acids and cholesterol.
Our data provide further confirmation for the concept that fish oil-derived fatty acids reduce the risk of acute coronary events. However, a high mercury content in fish could attenuate this protective effect.
Total fat intake was positively associated with risk of AMD, which may have been due to intakes of individual fatty acids, such as linolenic acid, rather than to total fat intakes per se. A high intake of fish may reduce the risk of AMD.
A higher consumption of fish and long-chain omega-3 fatty acids was associated with a lower CHD incidence and total mortality among diabetic women.
These data suggest that certain fatty acids might be involved in prostate carcinoma occurrence, although the possibility that these were chance findings cannot be ruled out.
The n-3 fatty acids found in fish are strongly associated with a reduced risk of sudden death among men without evidence of prior cardiovascular disease.
These results indicate no beneficial effect of increased fish oil consumption on the incidence of a first myocardial infarction. However, the effect of very high levels of fish oils could not be evaluated.
In patients with IgA nephropathy, treatment with fish oil for two years retards the rate at which renal function is lost.
Consumption of lean red meat or lean white meat, as part of an NCEP Step I diet, is similarly effective for reducing LDL cholesterol and elevating HDL cholesterol concentrations in free-living persons with hypercholesterolemia.
These findings suggest that EPA-E is not particularly effective in reducing urinary calcium excretion in the hypercalciuric patients, but it needs future investigation because some patients experienced significant urinary calcium reduction.
Restenosis after coronary angioplasty is reduced by supplemental fish oils, and the extent of the observed benefit may be dependent on the dose of omega-3 fatty acids used.
This study appears to indicate that the mortise separation adjustment may be superior to detuned ultrasound therapy in the management of subacute and chronic grade I and grade II inversion ankle sprains.
Folic acid, an inexpensive vitamin, is safe in a broad range of doses and protects patients with rheumatoid arthritis who are taking methotrexate from toxicity while preserving the efficacy of methotrexate.
Low dose leucovorin when taken simultaneously with MTX did not interfere with the efficacy of MTX in a short term 8 week trial.
This study suggests that the inhibition of blood lipid oxidisability by PADMA 28 may play a role in its anti-atherosclerotic effect.
Eczema is more prevalent among British schoolchildren in social classes I and II than those in lower classes. Exposures associated with social class are probably at least as important as genetic factors in the expression of childhood eczema.
Daily use of xylitol lozenges did not result in a statistically or clinically significant reduction in 33-month caries increment among adults at an elevated risk of developing caries.
In the follow-up examinations, a lower number of dentin caries teeth and surfaces was found in the erythritol group than in the xylitol or control groups. Time to the development of caries lesions was longest in the erythritol group.
Selenium completed with L-thyroxine is a suitable therapy for patients with autoimmune thyroiditis.
Our data indicate that variants in the circadian-related genes CRY2 and MTNR1B may affect long-term changes in energy expenditure, and dietary fat intake may modify the genetic effects. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as 
Individuals with the IRS1 rs2943641 CC genotype might obtain more benefits in weight loss and improvement of insulin resistance than those without this genotype by choosing a high-carbohydrate and low-fat diet.
Our data suggest that high-fat weight-loss diets might be more effective in the management of the MetS compared with low-fat diets among individuals with the A-allele of the rs1522813 variant near IRS1.
An intervention with MedDiets enhanced with either EVOO or nuts appears to improve cognition compared with a low-fat diet. ISRCTN:35739639.
MedDiet reduces oxidative damage to lipids and DNA in MetS individuals. Data from this study provide evidence to recommend the traditional MedDiet as a useful tool in the MetS management. Registered under Clinical Trials.gov Identifier no. 
Mediterranean diets high in whole cereals, legumes and nuts compared to Mediterranean diets low in these phytate-rich foods increase the urinary phytate excretion in humans.
Compared with a control diet, consumption of a MedDiet supplemented with nuts is associated with delayed progression of ICA-IMT and plaque. The results contribute mechanistic evidence for the reduction of cardiovascular events observed in the PREDIMED trial.
MedDiets without calorie restriction seem to be effective in the prevention of diabetes in subjects at high cardiovascular risk.
Individuals at high-cardiovascular risk who improved their diet toward a TMD pattern rich in virgin olive oil, reduced their Apo B and ApoB/ApoA-I ratio and improved ApoA-I concentrations.
The result suggest that a Mediterranean diet supplemented with nuts could exert a beneficial effect on the risk of depression in patients with DM2.
Dietary recommendations were introduced for 220 million US and 56 million UK citizens by 1983, in the absence of supporting evidence from RCTs.
This study provides evidence that MFR when used as an adjunct to SBE is more effective than a control intervention for CLBP in nursing professionals.
Reflexology can be effective in reducing the severity of chronic back pain, i.e. it is able to reduce pain from moderate to mild. Thus, this technique is recommended to be performed by nurses as a complementary therapy in patient care.
Massage therapy is effective in reducing pain, stress hormones and symptoms associated with chronic low back pain.
Acupressure was effective in reducing low back pain in terms of disability, pain scores, and functional status. The benefit was sustained for six months.
In individuals with chronic non-specific low back pain, interferential current electro-massage achieved a significantly greater improvement in disability, pain and quality of life in comparison to superficial massage after 20 treatment sessions.
One to one lessons in the Alexander technique from registered teachers have long term benefits for patients with chronic back pain. Six lessons followed by exercise prescription were nearly as effective as 24 lessons.
One to one lessons in the Alexander technique from registered teachers have long term benefits for patients with chronic back pain. Six lessons followed by exercise prescription were nearly as effective as 24 lessons.
Clinically important differences between SMT and a control intervention were observed favoring SMT. Dose effects tended to be small.
Diabetes is associated with an increased incidence of functional disability, which is likely to further erode health status and quality of life.
These data suggest that in children with intractable epilepsy, a gradual initiation results in fewer adverse events and is tolerated better overall while maintaining the efficacy of the KD.
It is feasible to evaluate the ketogenic diet's efficacy in atonic or myoclonic seizures in a blinded, crossover study. The diet can be manipulated on a short-term basis in a blinded manner, and ketosis can be achieved or eliminated.
Dietary hempseed oil caused significant changes in plasma fatty acid profiles and improved clinical symptoms of atopic dermatitis. It is suggested that these improvements resulted from the balanced and abundant supply of PUFAs in this hempseed oil.
Our data suggest that dietary DHA could be bioactive and might have a beneficial impact on the outcome of atopic eczema, but our results need to be confirmed in a larger study.
Labor support by a minimally trained female friend or relative, selected by the mother-to-be, enhances the postpartum well-being of nulliparous mothers and their infants, and is a low-cost alternative to professional doulas.
Nulliparous women have a high use of epidural analgesia in labour. Nulliparous women who choose epidural analgesia are more likely to breast-feed for shorter durations. Further exploration of the factors underlying this association should be undertaken.
The beneficial trend attributed to one-to-one nursing in reduction of oxytocin stimulation suggests that implementation of recommendations for continuous professional support by intrapartum nursing staff may be appropriate in North America.
In hospitals characterized by high rates of routine intrapartum interventions, continuous labor support by nurses does not affect the likelihood of cesarean delivery or other medical or psychosocial outcomes of labor and birth.
One hour of birth support in the first stage of labour did not improve maternal oxytocin levels when compared to a control group.
Appropriate mode of intrapartum care can decrease the cesarean section rate and promote the vaginal delivery, also it can improve the maternal and neonatal outcomes.
Universal HB immunization is highly cost-effective in low-income countries with intermediate endemicity rates.
Since the institution of Taiwan's program of universal hepatitis B vaccination, the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in children has declined.
This study demonstrates that early swallow screening and dysphagia management in patients with acute stroke reduces the risk of aspiration pneumonia, is cost effective, and assures quality care with optimal outcome.
Bedside assessment of swallowing is of use in identifying patients at risk of developing complications. The value of routine screening with videofluoroscopy to detect aspiration is questioned.
These data provide evidence that morning light therapy has an antidepressant effect during pregnancy. A randomized controlled trial is warranted to test this alternative to medication.
Light's value for nonseasonal and seasonal depression are comparable. Light appears to produce faster antidepressant benefits than psychopharmacologic treatment.
Bright-light exposure during winter appears to be effective at improving the health-related quality of life and alleviating distress in healthy subjects.
The device was found to be efficacious in reducing high BP during 2 months of self-treatment by patients at home. Breathing pattern modification appears to be an important component in this reduction.
Relaxation therapy was an ineffective method of lowering 24 hour blood pressure, being no more beneficial than non-specific advice, support, and reassurance--themselves ineffective as a treatment for hypertension.
This pilot study demonstrates the positive effects of practicing qigong on controlling blood pressure and enhancing perceptions of self-efficacy.
Individualized stress management is associated with ambulatory BP reduction. The effects were replicated and further improved by follow-up. Reductions in psychological stress and improved anger coping appear to mediate the reductions in BP change.
A selected stress reduction approach, the Transcendental Meditation program, may be useful as an adjunct in the long-term treatment of hypertension in African Americans.
There is now considerable evidence that an array of mind-body therapies can be used as effective adjuncts to conventional medical treatment for a number of common clinical conditions.
A causal model of cardiovascular responses to stress should generalize to the real world, assess interactions between individual predispositions and environmental exposures, and focus on sustained pathogenic exposures and responses.
Both patients showed a significant improvement in their perception of phantom limb pain and sensations that was maintained at one-year follow-up. A randomized blinded controlled trial to confirm these positive outcomes is required.
Mutations in either the EGFR TK domain or the KRAS gene can lead to lung cancer pathogenesis. EGFR TK domain mutations are the first molecular change known to occur specifically in never smokers.
These results indicate that the high fractionation sensitivity is an intrinsic property of prostate carcinomas and they support the use of hypofractionation to increase the therapeutic gain for these tumours.
All the estimates point toward low values of alpha/beta, at least as low as the estimates of Brenner and Hall, and possibly lower than the expected values of about 3 Gy for late complications. Hypofractionation trials for intermediate-risk prostatic cancer appear to be indicated.
Acute GI toxicity is an independent significant predictor of late GI toxicity. This suggests a significant consequential component in the development of late GI toxicity.
The presented three-dimensional conformal regimen was acceptable, and the α/β value was 1.8, in agreement with other very recent low meta-analyses (reviewed in the "Discussion" section).
Results obtained with FOLFOX3 confirmed the synergy between oxaliplatin and 5-FU in 5-FU-resistant metastatic colorectal cancer. However, the response rate seems to be lower than that obtained with FOLFOX2. Further studies to determine the best oxaliplatin dose intensity are in progress.
On-line MR monitoring of regional hyperthermia by using the PFS method is feasible in a phantom setup and can be further developed for clinical applications.
Seasonal vaccination against influenza boosts the cellular immune response both in SCT patients and healthy controls. The protective effect is lower in the patients in general and especially on those, vaccinated early after SCT.
The results indicate that influenza vaccination induces sufficient immune response in pts with NHL, irrespective of previous chemotherapy.
We believe that a better knowledge by physicians of tolerance and efficiency of the vaccine could enhance the vaccination coverage.
The presence of certain comorbidities as well as clinical and radiographic evidence of respiratory compromise on admission may be helpful in identifying high-risk patients acutely infected with Influenza A.
Immunization of adults with cancer is a critical component of their care. Although additional research is necessary, following established recommendations may protect individuals with malignancies from significant morbidity and mortality associated with vaccine-preventable diseases.
In France, different recruitment methods have to be used to reach a satisfactory participation to a mass-screening campaign. Such a program requires involvement of general practitioners and close coordination between practitioners and health care insurance agencies.
The Minnesota study reduced mortality from colorectal cancer through use of a screening test with average screen and program sensitivities of about 90%.
The sequential mass-screening program which based on RPHA-FOBT and ADV might reduce the mortality for colorectal cancer in the Chinese population.
The participation rates were similar for sigmoidoscopy and FOBT. The detection rate for advanced neoplasia was three times higher following screening by sigmoidoscopy than by FOBT.
Acceptance of screening flexible sigmoidoscopy was high. Diagnostic follow-up varied according to polyp size, yet cancer or adenoma detection rates met expectations.
Laparoscopic colectomy results in significantly lower direct costs compared with open colectomy for carefully matched patients.
Robotic-assisted surgery for rectal cancer can be carried out safely and according to oncological principles. This approach shows promising short-term outcomes and may facilitate the adoption of minimally invasive rectal surgery.
Robotic-assisted laparoscopic low anterior resection for rectal cancer is feasible in experienced hands. This technique may facilitate minimally invasive radical rectal surgery.
Mitral valve repair can be successfully performed with the da Vinci robotic system. Long-term follow-up is needed to determine the durability of the repair compared with a standard sternotomy approach.
Allogeneic stem-cell transplantation can be curative in young patients with symptomatic sickle cell disease.
Untoward effects on the QTc interval are unlikely to occur when co-artemether is administered following prophylaxis or treatment with mefloquine.
Hypogonadism seems to play an important role in the development of osteopenia-osteoporosis in thalassaemia major; continuous hormone replacement therapy with transdermal oestrogen for females or hCG for responding males best improves the bone density parameters.
Supplementing the diets of children with PKU with a balanced blend of n-6 and n-3 EFA improves DHA status without compromising AA status.
This pilot study suggests that a multicenter randomized clinical trial comparing LMWH with UFH in critically ill medical-surgical patients is feasible. Pilot studies can improve the design of larger trials and may enhance successful timely completion.
Fixed-dose dalteparin provided identical filter life, comparable safety, but increased total daily cost compared with adjusted-dose heparin. Unfractionated heparin remains our anticoagulant of choice for continuous hemofiltration in intensive care.
In patients undergoing elective major knee surgery, postoperative treatment with 2.5 mg of fondaparinux once daily was significantly more effective in preventing deep-vein thrombosis than 30 mg of enoxaparin twice daily.
PDT was effective for airway stenosis in rabbit models. This suggests that PDT has the potential as a new therapeutic method for airway stenosis originating from granulation tissue.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia should be suspected when patients present with thrombocytopenia and thrombosis up to 3 weeks after exposure to heparin. This syndrome could be caused by high titers of platelet-activating IgG induced by heparin.
Mortality at 90 days was not significantly different; however, a beneficial effect of LD in valve surgery was found for the secondary end points of in-hospital mortality and infections.
Recent exposure to transfusion was associated with NEC in neonates. Neonates who developed TANEC were at overall higher risk of NEC. TANEC patients were at higher risk of mortality, but additional studies adjusting for confounders are needed.
Hemolysis levels vary among different cell washers. Decreasing the expiration time of units after washing may be warranted.
When our 2006 PRBC transfusion guidelines were used, no identifiable clinical benefits were identified, but increased complications of prematurity were noted. New, more restrictive guidelines were developed as a result of this study.
L-carnitine offers a potentially useful therapeutic agent for atherogenic conditions characterized by high Lp(a) levels, also in view of the excellent tolerability and essential lack of major side effects.
A higher dosage of protein substitute appeared to contribute to lower blood phenylalanine concentrations in PKU, but it did have a variable and individual impact and may have been influenced by the carbohydrate (+/- fat) content of the protein substitute.
This pilot study suggests that Phe-free AA tablets enriched in tyrosine and tryptophan may improve the quality of life in some intellectually disabled adults with untreated PKU.
There is a strong relation between protein insufficiency, as determined by plasma prealbumin levels, and linear growth impairment. We suggest that a plasma prealbumin level of at least 20 mg/dL is necessary for optimal growth in children with PKU.
The improvement of oxygenation by NO inhalation in ARDS does not require reduction of pulmonary resistance and can be performed using low doses in the ppb range, which has to be considered as probably non-toxic.
Our results confirm the high morbidity among youngsters and show a predominance of death among young adults.
A sticking non sterile plasters is not influential on the rate of phlebitis and ensures an good fix of the PVC compared the transparent sterile dressing to of polyurethane film.
After adjusting for other risk factors, use of peripheral venous catheter and use of central venous catheter were significantly related to occurrence of BSI in VLBW infants.
Preterm infants inevitably accumulate a significant nutrient deficit in the first few weeks of life that will not be replaced when current RDIs are fed. This deficit can be directly related to subsequent postnatal growth retardation.postnatal growth retardation, preterm infants.
Most catheter-related BSIs in neonates with PICCs are caused by CoNS and derive from intraluminal contamination. Strategies for prevention of catheter-related BSI directed at this predominant mechanism of infection are most likely to be effective.
Incidence and early onset of infections may contribute to the development of liver fibrosis in cases of long-term PN. New strategies are required in prevention and treatment of infections in children receiving PN.
CVCs may be lifesaving to a critically ill neonate, but complications occur frequently. Use must be restricted to infants in whom alternate delivery routes of intravenous therapy or support are otherwise unavailable.
Prolonged CONS bacteremia was avoided by early removal of CVCs. Retention of CVCs was successful in 46% of neonates with CONS bacteremia in whom it was attempted, but it was never successful if bacteremia lasted >4 days.
Frequency of PCE/CT appeared comparable to previously reported occurrences. Also, pleural effusion/ascites and removal difficulty appeared to be rare complications.
Preterm infants with sepsis/NEC are at greater risk of motor impairment at 2 years, which appears to be mediated by WMA. These findings may assist in defining a neuroprotective target in preterm infants with sepsis/NEC.
This study documents the high prevalence of nosocomial infections in patients in NICUs and the urgent need for more effective prevention interventions.
Further study is warranted to determine the pathophysiology between the association between thrombosis and infection and to determine if interventions may decrease the risk of these potentially life-threatening complications.
The apparent advantage of training in meditation over exercise for reducing cold and flu illness is explained more by improved function and quality of life than by a reduction in symptom severity.
Meditation and exercise add value to ARI-associated health-related costs with improved outcomes. Further research is needed to confirm results and inform policies on adding value to medical spending.
This study suggests that 1 year of moderate-intensity exercise training can reduce the incidence of colds among postmenopausal women. These findings are of public health relevance and add a new facet to the growing literature on the health benefits of moderate exercise.
Susceptibility to colds was increased by smoking. Although alcohol consumption did not influence risk of clinical illness for smokers, moderate alcohol consumption was associated with decreased risk for nonsmokers.
Perceived physical fitness and frequency of aerobic exercise are important correlates of reduced days with URTI and severity of symptoms during the winter and fall common cold seasons.
In moderate and high prevalence areas, urine-CCA cassette test is more sensitive than the Kato-Katz method and can be used for screening and mapping of S. mansoni infection.
The incidence of renal scars was similar in patients who received 3 days compared 8 days of intravenous ceftriaxone. Increased renal height at initial ultrasound examination and grade 3 vesicoureteric reflux were significant risk factors for renal scars.
With age-appropriate dosing and measurement of serum trough concentrations before the second dose, OD gentamicin is safe and effective for the treatment of UTI requiring parenteral treatment in children aged 1 month to 12 years.
Oral cefixime can be recommended as a safe and effective treatment for children with fever and urinary tract infection. Use of cefixime will result in substantial reductions of health care expenditures.
There is no ideal diagnostic protocol following a first febrile urinary tract infection. An aggressive protocol has a high sensitivity for detecting VUR and scarring but carries high financial and radiation costs with questionable benefit.
Treatment with oral antibiotics is as effective as parenteral then oral treatment in the management of the first episode of clinical pyelonephritis in children.
Cefepime and ceftazidime are equally safe and efficacious treatment for pyelonephritis in pediatric patients.
Adjunctive oral MPD therapy reduced the occurrence and/or severity of renal scarring after acute pyelonephritis in these hospitalized children who had a high risk of renal scar formation.
Changes in this revision include criteria for the diagnosis of UTI and recommendations for imaging.
The pooled prevalence values provided from this study provide a basis for an evidence-based approach to the management of children with this frequently occurring condition.
Acne continues to be a common skin problem past the teenaged years, with women being affected at higher rates than men in all age groups 20 years or older.
At age 18 years, acne is related to self-evaluation independent of body mass index and depressive symptoms.
Both lasers are effective modalities for the treatment of acne scars. Optimal outcomes might be achieved considering scar types and responses to a specific laser.
Different neuropsychiatric disorders seem to have a common genetic etiology, suggesting caution in the use of diagnostic entities and proband status in efforts to uncover genes predisposing to autism spectrum disorders.
The main implications are for supports to adolescent siblings by helping them to develop skills in managing others' reactions and openly discussing concerns about their brother's future.
Psychiatric disorders are common and frequently multiple in children with autism spectrum disorders. They may provide targets for intervention and should be routinely evaluated in the clinical assessment of this group.
The school setting is a key system to impact youth tobacco use. Findings underscore the need to train school personnel to enforce school tobacco policy.
The program contributed to reducing visible tobacco use and in decreasing the number of heavy smokers among teachers and students.
The Luoghi di Prevenzione-Prevention Grounds programme was effective in reducing daily smokers and in reducing smoking in school areas.
Stricter enforcement of school policies against tobacco use may help prevent or reduce adolescents' cigarette smoking on and outside of school property.
Class-related, rather than school-related, characteristics were associated with smoking initiation and progression. Changes in microenvironmental factors might be useful in smoking prevention among preadolescents.
These findings suggest that restrictions on smoking at home, more extensive bans on smoking in public places, and enforced bans on smoking at school may reduce teenage smoking.
Delaying the onset of smoking may affect the likelihood of becoming addicted to nicotine and smoking heavily. For students who are already addicted to nicotine, smoking cessation programs are needed.
These data suggest that NT is effective in reducing symptoms not only of ADHD but also of oppositionality. This group of children and adolescents tolerated robust dosing of NT well, with few clinical or cardiovascular adverse events.
Treatment with desipramine was well tolerated and was associated with robust clinically significant reductions in tic and ADHD symptoms in children and adolescents with chronic tic disorders and ADHD diagnoses.
A comprehensive 2-year psychosocial treatment was delivered successfully to children with ADHD and their families.
Our findings suggest that geographic location plays a limited role in the reasons for the large variability of ADHD/HD prevalence estimates worldwide. Instead, this variability seems to be explained primarily by the methodological characteristics of studies.
Clarithromycin has a bronchial anti-inflammatory effect associated with decreased eosinophilic infiltration. This study suggests interesting therapeutic possibilities for bronchial asthma that warrant further trials.
Azithromycin did not reduce the rate of severe exacerbations and LRTI in patients with severe asthma. However, the significant reduction in the PEP rate in azithromycin-treated patients with non-eosinophilic severe asthma warrants further study. CLINICALTRIALS.GOV NUMBER: 
Azithromycin did not improve Juniper AQLQ but appeared to improve overall asthma symptoms. Larger community-based trials of antichlamydial antibiotics for asthma are warranted.
These observations support the hypothesis that clarithromycin therapy improves lung function, but only in those subjects with positive PCR findings for M pneumoniae or C pneumoniae.
Oral albuterol may be more effective than commonly used antibiotics in relieving the symptoms of acute bronchitis.
One mechanism of the effectiveness of these drugs is induction of eosinophil apoptosis. Some combination of these drugs may be useful in the treatment of bronchial asthma.
In this Asian population, tooth loss significantly increased the risk of total death and death from upper GI cancer, heart disease, and stroke. These associations were not limited to tobacco smokers.
The panelists reached consensus that they would recommend an IRMOD instead of a CD as the first-choice standard of care for patients who are healthy or have mild systemic disease, but not for patients with severe systemic disease.
Chronic periodontitis is associated with incidence of CHD among younger men, independent of established cardiovascular risk factors.
These data provide support for a possible modest association of periodontal disease, as measured by self-reported tooth loss indicators, but not tooth loss per se, with SCCHN risk.
The results indicate that tooth loss and edentulism were complex phenomena, with intricate predisposing, demographic, enabling and need factors playing a role.
Nutrition and feeding guidance should be especially targeted to mothers with a high school education or less.
This culturally appropriate nutrition education package based on the nutrition triangle model effectively prevented growth faltering and malnutrition among young children.
These findings highlight the need for prenatal and early life interventions to prevent growth failure.
Anaerobic training has measurable effects on aerobic performance (although not sustained), anaerobic performance, and health-related quality of life in children with CF. Therefore, anaerobic training could be an important component of therapeutic programs for CF patients.
A short-term combined circuit weight and aerobic training program performed in a hospital setting induces significant benefits in the cardiorespiratory fitness and muscle strength of children with cystic fibrosis.
We concluded that strength and aerobic training may increase upper-body strength, and that both types of training may increase PWC for children with CF. Future trials should be conducted with no-training control subjects and larger samples to increase statistical power.
Exercise testing is safe in patients with CF. Despite the limitations in quality of data, the incidence of exercise-related SARs appears low in this population.
The most active patients with better exercise capacity had higher BMD. Those with more affected pulmonary function had a greater prevalence of vertebral fractures and dorsal kyphosis.
Ultrasound-guided cannulation of the femoral vein, in pediatric patients, when performed by senior anesthesia residents, is superior to the landmark technique in terms of speed and number of needle passes, with remarkable improvement in first attempt success.
The present data suggested that ultrasound-guided cannulation of the subclavian vein in critical care patients is superior to the landmark method and should be the method of choice in these patients.
Ultrasound-guided access to the femoral vein minimizes the complication of inadvertent arterial puncture as compared with the landmark-guided approach.
Ultrasound-guided cannulation of the femoral vein reduces the time required for the procedure, reduces the number of passes needed to puncture the vein, and minimizes complications such as arterial puncture or haematoma.
Ultrasound guidance of subclavian-vein catheterization, as used in this study, was not beneficial. In patients at highest risk for complications and failures, catheterization should be attempted by the most experienced physicians available.
USG significantly improves success rate, reduces number of attempts, and decreases the incidence of complications related to FV DC insertion.
The proper placement of guidewire was less influenced by the direction of the guidewire J-tip with ultrasound-guided subclavian venous cannulation than with the landmark approach.
The patients had moderately reduced perceived health status and activities of daily living, and increased pain with the ST patients generally at a better level than the BT.
Although more than 20 years had passed since completion of the treatment, most of the curves did not increase. The surgical complication rate was low. Degenerative disc changes were more common in both patient groups than in the control group.
For both brace treated and surgically treated AIS patients, spinal mobility and muscle endurance were reduced more than 20 years after completed treatment. The physical function was not severely restricted.
Patients treated by posterior fusion or a brace gradually increase their pulmonary function up to 25 years after treatment. Smoking and curve size are not risk factors for reduced pulmonary function.
SSS should be adopted by policy makers, because its scope goes beyond the identification of IS at an early stage, contributing significantly into the research for IS aetiology.
The findings confirm that vertebral growth is modulated by loading, according to the Hueter-Volkmann principle. The quantification of this relationship will permit more rational design of conservative treatment of spinal deformity during the adolescent growth spurt.
Persistent infection with MRSA in individuals with CF between the ages of 8 and 21 years is associated with a more rapid rate of decline in lung function.
We describe the emergence of PVL+ MRSA in our CF population in association with development of invasive lung infections including lung abscesses. Early identification and treatment of CF patients with newly acquired PVL+ MRSA may be crucial.
While the filter was effective in improving water quality, our results provide little evidence that it was protective against diarrhea. The moderate reduction observed nevertheless supports the need for larger studies that measure impact against a neutral placebo.
We observed reductions in population- and individual-level measures of HCGI associated with use of the active filtration device. These findings suggest the need for further research on the impact of drinking water on the health of sensitive subpopulations.
With an intense community-based intervention and supplies provided free of cost, each of the home-based interventions significantly reduced diarrhoea. There was no benefit by combining hand washing promotion with water treatment.
Our results suggest that consumption of untreated rainwater does not contribute appreciably to community gastroenteritis. However, our findings may not be generalizable to susceptible and immunocompromised persons because these groups were specifically excluded from the study.
Results suggest that high adherence is essential in order to realize potential health gains from HWT.
Simple, low cost interventions that improve water and latrine infrastructure may reduce the prevalence of diarrheal disease in the isolated regions of Nicaragua and Central America.
In water-scarce areas, school WASH interventions that include robust water supply improvements can reduce diarrheal diseases among young children.
Tubewells in flood-prone regions of Bangladesh were commonly contaminated with low levels of faecal organisms, contamination that could not be predicted by examining the tubewell's external characteristics.
Solar disinfection of water is an inexpensive, effective, and acceptable method of increasing water safety in a resource limited environment, and can significantly decrease diarrhoeal morbidity in children.
Our findings provide guidance in understanding how to best reduce and eliminate diarrheal disease through integrated control strategies.
Policies that aim to improve water quality through source improvements may be compromised by post-collection contamination. Safer household water storage and treatment is recommended to prevent this, together with point-of-use water quality monitoring.
Early surgery was associated with a higher prevalence of fusion and stereopsis, without adverse motor outcomes.
X(T) can be a presenting sign of reduced visual acuity. Most children with well controlled X(T) receive no treatment within 12 months following presentation.
Amblyopia is more responsive to treatment among children younger than 7 years of age. Although the average treatment response is smaller in children 7 to less than 13 years of age, some children show a marked response to treatment.
Long-term treatment with asenapine was more effective than placebo in preventing relapse of schizophrenia and appeared to be safe and well tolerated.
Oral ibuprofen is as effective as oral indomethacin for the treatment of PDA in preterm infants. Oral ibuprofen therapy is associated with a lower incidence of NEC.
In our trial ibuprofen was as effective as indomethacin in closing PDA. No significant differences were found in the incidence of complications but fewer renal complications and no gastrointestinal complications were found in the ibuprofen group.
Compared with ibuprofen, indomethacin caused a significant reduction in urinary ADH excretion and a significant decrease in urinary sodium and osmolality.
Early administration of oral ibuprofen for treatment of PDA in VLBWIs can decrease the incidence rates of some early complications and shorten hospitalization time, but causes no significant adverse effects.
Compared with indomethacin, ibuprofen did not significantly reduce mesenteric and renal blood flow velocity.
Ibuprofen therapy is as efficacious as indomethacin for the treatment of PDA in preterm infants. Infants treated with ibuprofen have higher creatinine clearance and urine output and lower serum creatinine and BUN values than infants treated with indomethacin.
Ibuprofen treatment seems to be as efficient as indomethacin in closing PDA on the third day of life in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome and seems to have fewer renal side effects.
Ibuprofen therapy on the third day of life is as efficacious as indomethacin for the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants with the respiratory distress syndrome and is significantly less likely to induce oliguria.
Collectively, the favorable effects of ibuprofen on PDA in premature infants maybe mediated in part by the reduction of NT-proBNP level.
After two years treatment there was a significant increase in LS BMD with weekly risedronate compared to placebo.
Osteoporosis is universal in adults with late-stage cystic fibrosis, and its complications include increased fracture rates and severe kyphosis.
Pain is common in adults with CF, interferes with activities, and is associated with lower QOL and an increased risk of both exacerbations and death.
Alendronate increases bone density in patients receiving glucocorticoid therapy.
These data suggest that the origin of CF bone disease in early childhood may be independent of nutritional status or disease severity.
The systemic response to infection is associated with increased bone resorptive activity in patients with CF.
Intermittent cyclical therapy with etidronate for two years significantly increases spinal bone mass and reduces the incidence of new vertebral fractures in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis.
Rotator cuff tears are frequently asymptomatic. Tears demonstrated during radiological investigation of the shoulder may be asymptomatic. It is important to correlate radiological and clinical findings in the shoulder.
Compared with loratadine alone, olopatadine adjunctive to loratadine provides greater relief of ocular itching and redness, a better quality of life, and is well tolerated in patients with seasonal allergic conjunctivitis.
In this study, olopatadine 0.1 % was more effective than topical ketotifen 0.025 % in improving itching, tearing and burning in allergic conjunctivitis patients.
In this small study in patients with AC, following administration of a single drop, epinastine was rated as more comfortable than azelastine and ketotifen. None of the tested medications were associated with significant acute ocular drying effects.
Sputum hyaluronan values are reduced with mepolizumab therapy and correlate with improved clinical and spirometry values, suggesting this measurement may serve as a noninvasive biomarker of asthma control.
Mepolizumab reduced the number of blood and sputum eosinophils and allowed prednisone sparing in patients who had asthma with sputum eosinophilia despite prednisone treatment. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Mepolizumab administered either intravenously or subcutaneously significantly reduced asthma exacerbations and was associated with improvements in markers of asthma control. (Funded by GlaxoSmithKline; MENSA ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Omalizumab administered as add-on therapy to BSC benefits patients with poorly controlled, moderate-to-severe allergic asthma.
In patients requiring daily oral glucocorticoid therapy to maintain asthma control, mepolizumab had a significant glucocorticoid-sparing effect, reduced exacerbations, and improved control of asthma symptoms. (Funded by GlaxoSmithKline; SIRIUS ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Long-term treatment with omalizumab is safe and well tolerated in children with allergic asthma.
This study demonstrates that add-on omalizumab therapy is cost-effective in patients with severe persistent allergic asthma.
Patients receiving reslizumab showed significantly greater reductions in sputum eosinophils, improvements in airway function, and a trend toward greater asthma control than those receiving placebo. Reslizumab was generally well tolerated.
Omalizumab was safe and well tolerated in the treatment of patients with PAR, providing effective control of symptoms and improved RQoL while simultaneously minimizing reliance on rescue antihistamines.
IL-13 has a role in allergen-induced airway responses in humans. Further study is required to determine whether anti-IL-13 monoclonal antibodies will be beneficial clinically.
These findings suggest that omalizumab reduced airway wall thickness and airway inflammation. Larger patient studies with longer-term follow-up are needed to show whether omalizumab can truly maintain improved airway wall dimensions.
A response in terms of asthma following omalizumab therapy is associated with a significantly increased probability of improvement in rhinitis.
These results indicate that omalizumab is effective in the long-term control of severe allergic asthma.
A recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody directed against IgE has potential as a treatment for subjects with moderate or severe allergic asthma.
The addition of MEDI-528 to existing asthma controller medications was not associated with any improvement in ACQ-6 scores, asthma exacerbation rates, or FEV1 values, nor was it associated with any major safety concerns.
Add-on treatment with omalizumab improved asthma control without significant adverse events in Japanese patients with moderate-to-severe persistent asthma.
Although both sequential pneumococcal vaccine regimens were safe and immunogenic among preschool asthmatics, immunogenicity was higher when the booster was given after 10 months.
Our study suggests that preventing RSV LRTI with palivizumab may reduce subsequent recurrent wheezing in premature infants.
In patients with severe persistent difficult-to-treat asthma, despite regular treatment with LABA and inhaled corticosteroids (GINA 2002 step 4), Xolair is a safe and effective treatment.
Overall, treatment with golimumab did not demonstrate a favorable risk-benefit profile in this study population of patients with severe persistent asthma. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Omalizumab blocked early asthmatic responses over a broad range of IgE/body weight combinations. Extending the dosing tables enables omalizumab to benefit a wider range of patients.
In people with psychosis, there is a marked excess of victimising experiences, many of which will have occurred during childhood. This is suggestive of a social contribution to aetiology.
Recent conceptualizations of PTSD and psychosis are used to inform the consideration of these different pathways, and the implications for theories of psychosis and trauma and the clinical implications for services for psychotic patients are discussed.
There is a wealth of data about the prevalence of schizophrenia. These gradients, and the variability found in prevalence estimate distributions, can provide direction for future hypothesis-driven research.
Although both sevoflurane and propofol allow for rapid emergence from general anaesthesia, only sevoflurane is associated with a high incidence of emergence agitation in infants and young children. Rapid emergence does not fully explain this phenomena.
In children younger than 3 years of age, propofol containing ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid has a similar profile to sevoflurane with respect to haemodynamic effects, recovery times, side-effects, ionized calcium and ionized magnesium levels.
Propofol is a feasible option for paediatric diagnostic ophthalmic procedures with the advantage over halothane of providing complete access to the eye.
Induction of sevoflurane anesthesia with propofol for day-case adenoidectomy results in longer, but more calm, early recovery but does not delay discharge or affect recovery at home.
A propofol-based anesthetic technique did not lead to a lower incidence of emergence delirium after dental surgery in children but did result in significantly less PONV and fewer postoperative nursing interventions.
The increased incidence of adverse events during induction, postoperative nausea and vomiting and postoperative delirium in the sevoflurane group suggests that sevoflurane is not ideal as a sole agent for paediatric day case anaesthesia.
The incidence of PONV after paediatric strabismus surgery under sevoflurane anaesthesia was relatively low, and combining remifentanil with sevoflurane did not further increase the incidence.
This observational study confirms previous reports, and indicates that there is still a relative higher rate of adverse events in infants compared with older children even in a teaching paediatric hospital with a high annual caseload.
These results support the reliability and validity of the PAED scale.
RCT-treated molars demonstrated significantly greater survival than FS-treated molars 3 years after treatment.
Outcomes for FS were poorer than RCT outcomes at 2 years; however, at 2 years, the survival rates were not statistically different.
Outcomes for mineral trioxide aggregate pulpotomy were superior to ferric sulfate and eugenol-free ferric sulfate pulpotomy after a median follow-up of 2 years.
ZOE, as the only pulpotomy medicament, had a significantly lower success rate than MTA. No significant differences were observed, among the 3 experimental materials (MTA, FC, and FS) at 2 years follow-up.
Both the antibacterial pastes, i.e., combination of ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, and minocycline and ciprofloxacin, ornidazole, and minocycline mixed with propylene glycol have shown good clinical and radiographic success in treating necrotic primary teeth.
RCTs of pulp treatments for primary teeth investigate diverse outcomes. Our consensus process, involving clinicians but no patient, allowed for compiling a core set of component outcomes to define the composite outcome failure of a pulp treatment for primary teeth.
The radiological protocol used shows a high sensitivity and excellent specificity for detecting the cerebral circulatory arrest that accompanies BD. As a rapid, non-invasive, and widely available technique it is a promising alternative to conventional 4-vessel angiography.
Lack of opacification in the cortical segments of the MCAs and internal veins in CTA is efficient and reliable for confirming BD.
In clinically BD patients with no electroencephalographic activity CT-a documents opacification of the intracerebral vessels in a significant percentage of the cases. Therefore CT-a cannot be recommended as a means of BD diagnosis.
An IV therapy team significantly reduced both local and bacteremic complications of peripheral IV catheters. Timely replacement of the catheter appeared to be the most important factor in reducing the occurrence of complications.
Use of fluticasone can reduce the severity of symptoms of sinusitis in children.
Our study disproved the idea of ineffectiveness of corticosteroid treatment in NAR, and showed that triamcinolone acetate may be an alternative drug in the treatment of NAR.
These preliminary data indicate that short-term treatment with budesonide inhalation suspension, used for an indication out of label, may significantly reduce local neutrophilic inflammation and nasal obstruction in children with recurrent upper airway infections.
FFNS reduces symptoms of uncomplicated ARS compared with placebo and is well tolerated, providing support for withholding antibiotics in selected patients.
Corticosteroids provide symptomatic relief of pain in sore throat, in addition to antibiotic therapy, mainly in participants with severe or exudative sore throat.
For the treatment of acute traumatic musculoskeletal injuries, ibuprofen provides the best analgesia among the 3 study medications.
Valdecoxib was comparable with tramadol and was significantly better than placebo in treating acute ankle sprain, and it enabled more patients to resume normal walking on days 4 and 7. Both valdecoxib and tramadol were well tolerated.
Celecoxib is as effective as naproxen in treating acute first-degree or second-degree ankle sprains but causes significantly less dyspepsia.
The findings suggest that the verbally administered NRS can be substituted for the VAS in acute pain measurement.
This cyclooxygenase-1 inhibitor did not improve the strength of ligament healing but did significantly improve the strength of the contralateral uninjured ligament.
We conclude that t and ANOVA, without an accompanying arcsin transformation, are good tests to find differences in VAS measurements among groups.
These findings suggest that parents may reduce anxiety levels by massaging their children with cystic fibrosis and their children may benefit from receiving massage by having less anxiety and improved mood, which in turn may facilitate breathing.
These findings emphasize the importance of genetic counseling for prenatal carrier testing and may improve understanding, acceptance, and informed decision making for prenatal carrier screening for multiple genetic diseases.
Once adequate facilities for patient and provider education, testing, counselling, quality control, and monitoring are in place, individual programmes can begin prenatal screening for cystic fibrosis.
Teenagers with a chronic disease will actively participate in an ESG. The social and expressive aspects of their involvement with this support group hold much promise.
Neonatal screening provides the opportunity to prevent malnutrition in infants with cystic fibrosis.
HIH can occur despite discontinuation of heparin, and TTKG can be helpful in guiding fludrocortisone treatment in this circumstance.
Punctate lesions are predominantly seen in preterm infants, are usually linearly organised, and border the lateral ventricles. Isolated punctate lesions may imply a good prognosis, because most of these subjects have a normal neurodevelopmental outcome so far.
Cerebellar haemorrhages seem to affect the development of the pons in ELBW with the youngest GA.
Cerebellar hemorrhagic injury in preterm infants is associated with a high prevalence of long-term pervasive neurodevelopment disabilities and may play an important and underrecognized role in the cognitive, learning, and behavioral dysfunction known to affect survivors.
The examined alternatives to conventional GRE MR imaging yield substantially improved CMB contrast and sensitivity for detection. Future studies based on these techniques will most likely yield even higher prevalence estimates for CMB.
Very-low-birth-weight infants who are carriers for either prothrombotic mutations are at increased risk for development of GMH-IVH. Genetic factors act as independent risk factors of the same magnitude as other known risk factors.
Preterm infants are more difficult to treat with enoxaparin than full term infants. Enoxaparin appears to be an alternative to treatment with standard heparin or no treatment.
Cure or long-term remission can be achieved in about one-quarter of patients with CIDP after 1 or 2 courses of pulsed dexamethasone or 8-month daily prednisolone. In treatment-nonresponsive patients, the diagnosis CIDP should be reconsidered.
Based on common willingness to pay thresholds, IVIG would not be perceived as a cost effective treatment for CIDP.
INCAT electrophysiological criteria did not predict a higher rate of response to immunotherapy. Neurophysiologically probable CIDP patients should be given a trial of immunotherapy.
Switching between traditional therapies increases the number of responder patients. IVIg was confirmed to be a therapy with low SE.
All clinimetric requirements were met by the overall (arm and leg) disability sum score in immune mediated polyneuropathies. Its use is therefore suggested in evaluating immune mediated polyneuropathies.
Pulsed oral methylprednisolone may be efficacious in the long-term treatment of CIDP and is relatively well tolerated. Remission can be induced in most patients, especially those with a shorter duration of disease.
There is a high proportion of abnormal DMSA scans in children with a first episode of acute pyelonephritis.
DMSA scintigraphy associated with other diagnostic methods can improve the sensitivity and specificity to establish renal damage stage. During the follow-up the acute lesions disappeared or improved in all cases and the chronic lesions have not been modificated.
UTI clinical features are important in assessing the need for DMSA imaging. Current UK imaging guidelines are endorsed, although preschool children with solitary lower tract UTI remain a controversial group and more attention needs to focused on children with recurrent UTI.
This study provides current and local data on a large sample of children <5 years with urinary tract infection, which are useful to clinicians who manage children at risk of the condition.
Early and appropriate treatment of urinary tract infection, especially during the first 24 hours after the onset of symptoms, diminishes the likelihood of renal involvement during the acute phase of the infection but does not prevent scar formation.
The diagnostic performance of PCT was higher than that of CRP in the early detection of invasive infection in febrile infants, even when evolution was less than 12 hours.
PCT and CRP performed better than IL-6, WBC, and/or band count in predicting the occurrence of SBI. PCT and CRP bedside tests may be useful tools for emergency and private practice doctors and should be considered in the initial work-up of children with fever without source.
A rapid determination of procalcitonin concentration could be useful for the management of children with febrile UTI in the emergency room.
DMSA scans are useful for investigating and following UTI. They help to distinguish acute pyelonephritis and lower UTI. It is a reliable method of detecting structural abnormalities and identifying children at risk of progressive renal damage.
If a DMSA scan is not available, it is reasonable to treat a febrile UTI as APN if the CRP is >66.4 mg/L in a patient with >2 days of fever or if the CRP is >27.3 mg/L in a patient febrile for < or =2 days.
We found significantly higher IL-6 and IL-8 levels in children with febrile UTI and elevated inflammatory markers. IL-6 and IL-8 levels do not differentiate between acute pyelonephritis and UTI in children to age 24 months.
We found high urinary IL-8 levels in children with pyelonephritis. We also documented its increasing after the treatment. We conclude that evaluation of urinary IL-8 can be a noninvasive test for diagnosis of upper urinary tract infection and its response to treatment.
For children with or without primary nonsevere reflux, prophylaxis does not reduce the rate of recurrent febrile urinary tract infections after the first episode.
Those children younger than 2 years of age with the highest IL-8 concentrations during the acute phase of pyelonephritis as well as children with reflux grades of III or greater are at a high-risk for developing renal scarring in the future.
US findings are significantly correlated to Volume in APN. Along with a high level of CRP, US is helpful in predicting development of renal scarring.
Clinical signs at presentation in childhood UTI cannot be used to predict for mild or multiple scarring, and should not be used to guide management. NICE's recommendation to do so is not justified.
Appropriate selection of existing statistical methods is necessary to address research questions about the comparative accuracy of new tests.
In children with culture-proven UTI, a serum PCT value >0.5 ng/mL predicts reasonably well the presence of RPI, as evidenced by DMSA scintigraphy. PCT may aid in the identification of children with UTI, necessitating more intense evaluation and management.
Although individual signs and symptoms were helpful in the diagnosis of a UTI, they were not sufficiently accurate to definitively diagnose UTIs. Combination of findings can identify infants with a low likelihood of a UTI.
Intravenous tramadol (1 mg/kg) is more suitable than 1 mg/kg dose of dextromethorphan cough syrup oral in reducing posttonsillectomy pain in children.
Tramadol has similar analgesic properties, when compared with morphine. The various pharmaceutical presentations and the availability as a noncontrolled substance may make it a useful addition to paediatric anaesthesia if it becomes licensed for paediatric anaesthesia in the UK.
Tramadol may be a suitable drug for children undergoing adenotonsillectomy for OSA. Further work is required to investigate this.
Meperidine was more effective for pain relief and provides better emergence characteristics than tramadol after tonsillectomy in children.
Morphine hydrochloride 0.1 mg x kg(-1) i.v. administered during induction of anaesthesia provides efficient pain relief in children undergoing adenotonsillectomy.
Intradermal tramadol 5% can provide a local anaesthesia similar to the prilocaine but the incidence of local adverse effects is higher.
Pretreatment with tramadol 60 sec before propofol injection and propofol-lidocaine mixture were significantly reduced propofol injection pain when compared to placebo in children.
Caudal tramadol provides better and longer lasting postoperative analgesia than i.v. tramadol. These results also suggest that preoperative caudal tramadol did not provide any clinically perceptible benefits compared with postoperative caudal tramadol.
Tramadol intra- and postoperative analgesia and mivacurium myoresolution represents, in personal opinion, an efficient approach to dissection adenotonsillectomy performed in children under general anaesthesia.
Parents have unmet information needs about infant pain and wish greater involvement in their infant's pain care. Parent concerns about infant pain may contribute to parental stress.
This study highlights the prevalence of pediatric CPSP and the role played by psychological variables in its development/maintenance. Risk factors that are associated with the development of CPSP are different from those that maintain it.
In Sweden, most day surgery units perform paediatric surgery, most children receive pre-medication, anaesthesia is induced IV and take-home analgesics paracetamol and or NSAIDs are often provided. Still, pain is a common complaint after discharge.
The treatment group, which underwent all cardiac surgeries with optimized cerebral oxygen delivery using cerebral oximetry monitoring, demonstrated a significantly lower incidence of permanent stroke. Because our study is retrospective, a prospective randomized trial is warranted.
The approach used overcomes previously identified difficulties with cerebral oximetry, and demonstrates excellent in vitro correlation. The technique can be performed clinically without difficulty. A simultaneous measure of mean cortical transit time is possible.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of paracetamol differ substantially in neonates and infants from those in older children and adults; hence, dosing should be adjusted accordingly.
Atypical bacteria seem to play a role among children with RRTIs, and prolonged azithromycin therapy can significantly improve the acute episodes and reduce the risk of recurrences.
Levofloxacin was as well tolerated and effective as standard-of-care antibiotics for the treatment of CAP in infants and children.
Clarithromycin showed efficacy equivalent to erythromycin for the treatment of mycoplasma or chlamydia pneumonia in children. However, the tolerability of clarithromycin was superior to that of erythromycin.
This study of LEV versus PHT for seizure prevention in the NSICU showed improved long-term outcomes of LEV-treated patients vis-à-vis PHT-treated patients. LEV appears to be an alternative to PHT for seizure prophylaxis in this setting.
Phenytoin exerts a beneficial effect by reducing seizures only during the first week after severe head injury.
Both intravenous phenytoin and valproate resulted in intravenous site reactions, with the loading doses responsible for the majority of the events.
No serious hemostatic adverse events occurred in the trauma patients receiving VPA or phenytoin that could be attributed to treatment.
Due to the negative cognitive effects of anti-epileptic drugs, the preliminary results are of considerable interest for the rehabilitation of patients with very severe TBI.
When late seizures develop after severe head injury, the probability of recurrence is high, which suggests that patients be treated aggressively with anticonvulsant medication after a first unprovoked late seizure.
Both the risk factors and the time course of the risk are important for designing seizure-prophylaxis studies and, if an effective prophylactic regimen is identified, for deciding on appropriate candidates for prophylaxis.
Preventing even moderate hyperglycemia with insulin during intensive care protected the central and peripheral nervous systems, with clinical consequences such as shortening of intensive care dependency and possibly better long-term rehabilitation.
Glucocorticoid treatment after TBI is not associated with decreased late posttraumatic seizures, and early treatment is associated with increased seizure activity.
The increased risk of seizures after traumatic brain injury varies greatly according to the severity of the injury and the time since the injury.
Effective or promising results predominate for provoked (acute, symptomatic) seizures. For unprovoked (epileptic) seizures, no drug has been shown to be effective, and some have had a clinically important effect ruled out.
IPV discussions were influenced strongly by cueing providers. Provider cueing is an effective and appropriate adjunct to routine risk counseling in prenatal care.
Although sample attrition urges cautious interpretation, the results of this trial do not provide sufficient evidence to support IPV screening in health care settings. Evaluation of services for women after identification of IPV remains a priority.
Computer screening for DV increased but did not guarantee that DV would be addressed during ED encounters. Nonetheless, it is likely that low-cost interventions that allow patients the opportunity to self-disclose can be used to improve detection of DV.
Screening for intimate partner violence with an audiotape method appears to have several advantages compared with screening by a written questionnaire, and the audiotape method may be associated with slightly higher rates of disclosing intimate partner violence.
The SEEK model led to significant and sustained improvement in several areas. This is a crucial first step in helping HPs address major psychosocial problems that confront many families. SEEK offers a modest yet promising enhancement of primary care.
Overall, the home visiting program did not reduce major risk factors for child abuse that made families eligible for service. Research is needed to develop and test strategies to improve home visiting effectiveness in reducing parental risks for child abuse.
Brief family psychosocial screening is feasible in pediatric practice. Screening and provider training may lead to greater discussion of topics and contact of community family support resources by parents.
The results of this study and others indicate the potential usefulness of screening and intervention in a medical setting.
These results suggest that the proposed DP is associated with an increased frequency of self-reported IPV-related injuries when compared with the ED's SOP.
Among women receiving care in primary care clinics, providing a partner violence resource list with or without screening did not result in improved health.
An approach that frames questioning within a birectional context enhances detection of recent physical victimization, and can be completed in busy reproductive healthcare setting. All screens were equally and highly regarded by participants and adequately rated by providers.
The computerized program offers promise as a nonthreatening method of conducting abuse assessments among women with disabilities while also serving as an intervention to enhance abuse awareness.
With a lower than projected sample size, our findings did not achieve statistical significance at the 5% level but suggest a beneficial effect of the MI intervention on reducing depressive symptoms.
The CLAS is a promising approach for evaluating patients' attitudes toward computer-based health-risk assessments.
Ophthalmologists treating orbital floor fracture patients should maintain a high index of suspicion for IPV and screen accordingly. Following IPV disclosure, patient safety should be assessed and referral provided.
Psychological IPV has significant physical health consequences. To reduce the range of health consequences associated with IPV, clinicians should screen for psychological forms of IPV as well as physical and sexual IPV.
Both physical and psychological IPV are associated with significant physical and mental health consequences for both male and female victims.
Interpersonal physical violence was identified as a factor associated with oral-maxillofacial trauma, specifically mandibular fracture, facial contusion, and dental concussion.
With the high prevalence of domestic violence, health professionals should maintain a high level of awareness of the possibility of domestic violence, especially affecting pregnant women, but the case for screening is not yet convincing.
The findings enhance the understanding of head, neck and face injuries and inform clinicians about the linkage among injuries and risks in abused Chinese women.
The use of NPC significantly diminishes the loss of STSG area, as well as shortens the days of hospital stay. Therefore, it should be routinely used for these kinds of procedures.
VAC therapy can be easily used in an outpatient setting, mobile device is highly accepted, operation of the equipment is simple. VAC therapy significantly decreases the time of wound healing and absenteeism from work as well as the postoperative late pain.
Although there is some indication that NPWT may improve wound healing, the body of evidence available is insufficient to clearly prove an additional clinical benefit of NPWT. The large number of prematurely terminated and unpublished trials is reason for concern.
The use of a simple suction drain is a cheap and safe alternative to commercial VAC dressings for the treatment of lower limb split skin grafts. Length of hospital stay and cost are superior to VAC, with no diminished clinical outcome.
In patients with an increased risk for sternal instability and wound infection after cardiac surgery, sternal reinforcement according to the technique described by Robicsek did not reduce this complication.
Our homemade negative-pressure system proved to be a good cost-effective treatment for wound closure in hospitalized patients, yielding results comparable to those of the more expensive V.A.C. system.
Reliable evidence on the effectiveness of NPWT is scarce. Tentative evidence indicates that the effectiveness of NPWT is at least as good as or better than current local treatment for wounds. The need for large high-quality randomised studies is apparent.
This study provides a method for developing and evaluating locality-specific transfusion guidelines. This method can be applied to other regions, including the United States, and to other diseases transmitted by blood products.
Dapsone can be recommended in preference to pentamidine as PCP prophylaxis on the basis of equivalent efficacy, absence of excessive haematological toxicity, low cost and ease of administration.
Treatment with co-trimoxazole reduces the incidence of relapses in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis in remission.
Although the overall incidence of PCP is low, patients with IBD are at increased risk. Patients with IBD with PCP are predominantly on corticosteroids alone or in combination before PCP diagnosis.
Despite major advances in diagnosis and management, PCP remains a significant problem in non-HIV-infected patients, and respiratory failure remains associated with a high mortality rate for patients with both HIV + PCP and non-HIV PCP.
The use of manual cricoid pressure, even by experienced anesthetists, causes a degree of airway obstruction and can cause complete airway occlusion.
The lightwand cannot be recommended for the first attempt at intubation where cricoid pressure is being applied because the time to successful intubation is significantly prolonged, and the failure rate for the first attempt at lightwand intubation is 13%.
Applying cricoid pressure worsened laryngeal view. The use of a gum elastic bougie was more effective than the use of a stylet to facilitate intubation.
The BL is more reliable, quicker, and more resistant to the effects of cricoid pressure than is the FFB.
CP applied by trained personnel does not increase the rate of failed intubation. Hence CP should not be avoided for fear of increasing the difficulty of intubation when its use is indicated.
These findings may explain the occurrence of pulmonary aspiration before tracheal intubation despite application of cricoid cartilage pressure.
Our results identified specific gene markers that distinguish aging MSCs grown in cell culture. Confirmatory studies are needed to correlate these molecular markers with biologic attributes that may facilitate the development of assays to test the quality of MSCs before clinical use.
Based on the current clinical trials, MSC therapy appears safe. However, further larger scale controlled clinical trials with rigorous reporting of adverse events are required to further define the safety profile of MSCs.
Human umbilical cord-derived PCs and MSCs exert short- and long-term therapeutic benefit without adverse lung effects in this experimental model and offer new therapeutic options for lung diseases characterised by alveolar damage.
BMSCs prevent arrested alveolar and vascular growth in part through paracrine activity. Stem cell-based therapies may offer new therapeutic avenues for lung diseases that currently lack efficient treatments.
Patients treated with dupilumab had marked and rapid improvement in all the evaluated measures of atopic dermatitis disease activity. Side-effect profiles were not dose-limiting. (Funded by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and Sanofi; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
Unexpectedly high proportions of patients with AE received potent topical and systemic steroids. The average total amount of prescribed medications was low. This study suggests insufficient care and medical treatment of patients with AE in routine practice.
Infant eczema with concurrent sleeping problems appears to be a risk factor for the development of mental health problems.
Approximately 15 million American children are affected by inadequate sleep. Primary care providers should routinely identify and address inadequate sleep and its associated health, school, and family factors.
SHF hemofiltration achieved a much greater clearance of myoglobin than conventional hemofiltration, and it may provide a potential modality for the treatment of myoglobinuric acute renal failure.
Quercetin and quercetin in combination with cisplatin can inhibit adhesion and migration and invasion of HeLa cells. Quercetin can enhance the inhibitory effect of cisplatin on HeLa cell adhesion, migration and invasion.
Use of TIS did not reflect recommended guidelines and may impact other health care utilization.
Self- and clinician-reporting of adherence does not provide accurate measurement of adherence when compared with electronic monitoring. Using inaccurate measures has implications for treatment burden, clinician prescribing practices, cost, and accuracy of trial data.
Routine adherence monitoring can be implemented in an outpatient setting. Using this type of information it is possible to identify which aspects of treatment can be improved and to work together with families to individualize treatments.
Findings indicate maintenance of intervention effects on A1C observed at 1-year follow-up.
Asthma education led to improved adherence and decreased morbidity compared with UC. Home-based educational interventions may lead to modest short-term improvements in asthma outcomes among inner-city children. Adherence feedback did not improve outcomes over education alone.
CBT-AD is a potentially efficacious approach for individuals with HIV struggling with depression and adherence. Replication and extension in larger efficacy trials are needed.
HAART interruption may cause impairment of previously acquired vaccine-induced immunity in HIV-infected adults.
The immunostimulatory properties of CPG 7909 present an important strategy in achieving long-term protection in HIV-infected patients and other HBV vaccine-hyporesponsive populations.
Response rate to 2 doses of Recombivax HB in urban youth is lower than previous studies suggest. The factors associated with diminished response are not known.
In HIV-infected youth, a three-dose vaccination regimen with Engerix B, 40 μg, or Twinrix and higher baseline CD4+ T-cell counts were independently associated with improved vaccine response.
In HIV-1-infected adults, the AS03(A)-adjuvanted H1N1v vaccine yielded a higher immune response than did the nonadjuvanted one, with no impact on HIV infection.
This combination vaccine will be useful for immunizing selected high-risk groups in developed countries. In countries where endemicity is low for both diseases, targeting students prior to risk of acquisition would be a feasible preventive strategy.
Our study indicates that TTN is strongly related to elective cesarean section and low GA. Furthermore, the absence of exposure to labor contractions is associated with increased risk and severe course of TTN at term, with longer duration of oxygen supplementation.
Potassium-magnesium citrate effectively prevents recurrent calcium oxalate stones, and this treatment given for up to 3 years reduces risk of recurrence by 85%.
Potassium citrate therapy has been found to be statistically significantly effective in the control of post-lithotripsy residual stone and stone recurrence.
We observe a significant relation between lithogenic pattern and lithiasis recurrence. Thiazides help us to control lithogenic factors and recurrences in patients with calcium lithiasis. This effect is prolonged and significant in patients with hypercalciuria.
The results of our study have shown that lemonade did not provide improvements in urinary citrate or pH levels but did assist patients in maintaining urine output compared with potassium citrate therapy.
Calcium citrate supplementation does not increase the risk of stone formation in healthy postmenopausal women. The co-administered potassium citrate may provide additional protection against formation of uric acid and calcium oxalate stones.
Potassium magnesium citrate prophylaxis was effective in reducing the recurrence of calcium oxalate and phosphate urolithiasis.
Increasing flow rates of HHHFNC therapy are associated with linear increases in NP pressures in bronchiolitis patients. Larger studies are needed to assess the clinical efficacy of HHHFNC therapy in bronchiolitis.
TNI offers an alternative to therapy to CPAP in children with mild-to-severe sleep apnea. Additional studies will be needed to determine the efficacy of this novel form of therapy.
High-flow nasal cannula used early in the development of pediatric ARI is associated with a decreased the need for intubation and mechanical ventilation.
CPAP delivered by high flow nasal cannula failed to maintain extubation status among preterm infants <or=1,250 g as effectively as Infant Flow CPAP.
HFNC was better tolerated and more comfortable than face mask. HFNC was associated with better oxygenation and lower respiratory rate. HFNC could have an important role in the treatment of patients with acute respiratory failure.
HHFNC was well-tolerated by premature infants. Compared to infants managed with NCPAP, there were no apparent differences in adverse outcomes following the introduction of HHFNC. Additional research is needed to better define the utility and safety of HHFNC compared to NCPAP.
In patients with acute lung injury and the acute respiratory distress syndrome, mechanical ventilation with a lower tidal volume than is traditionally used results in decreased mortality and increases the number of days without ventilator use.
Non-physician-provided HIV care results in equivalent outcomes to care provided by physicians and may result in decreased LTFU rates.
The experience of primary care physicians in the management of AIDS is significantly associated with survival among their patients.
Early management of permanent childhood hearing impairment results in improved language. Family participation is also an important factor in cases that are confirmed late, especially for children with severe or profound permanent childhood hearing impairment.
For depressed, cannabis-dependent patients, venlafaxine-extended release does not appear to be effective at reducing depression and may lead to an increase in cannabis use.
These data suggest that bupropion does not show promise as a potential treatment medication for marijuana dependence.
These studies demonstrate that naltrexone increases the subjective effects of oral THC. Thus, oral THC's effects are enhanced rather than antagonized by opioid receptor blockade in heavy marijuana smokers.
Nefazodone decreased certain marijuana withdrawal symptoms, but participants still reported substantial discomfort. These data provide further evidence of marijuana withdrawal, and highlight the need for more marijuana treatment options.
These data suggest the combination of lofexidine and THC warrant further testing as a potential treatment for marijuana dependence.
Overall, this human laboratory study did not find evidence to suggest that either baclofen or mirtazapine showed promise for the potential treatment of marijuana dependence.
Clinical outcomes with risperidone were equal to those with olanzapine, and response may be more stable. Olanzapine may have an advantage for motor side effects. Both medications caused substantial rapid weight gain, but weight gain was greater with olanzapine.
A dose-effect relationship between cannabis consumption and outcomes believed to be clinically important was observed. With additional research, smoking topography assessments may become a useful clinical tool.
Intraoperative MMC applied at a concentration of 0.2 mg/ml controlled postoperative IOP as effectively as a 0.4-mg/ml concentration in high-risk cases of congenital glaucoma, but with a lower incidence of complications and thin-walled blebs.
Trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C is generally effective for the treatment of pediatric glaucoma, especially in phakic children over 1 year of age. However, late-onset bleb-related endophthalmitis is a substantial risk in this patient population.
Topical brimonidine may be associated with central nervous system depression in infants. The use of brimonidine is not recommended in these patients until further data are available.
Both viscocanalostomy and trabeculectomy can lower IOP in PCG patients effectively. Although there was no major complications occurred in both groups, viscocanlostomy may decrease the probability of postoperative haemorrhage, hypotony, cataract, or choroid effusion.
More than half of the blindness detected was potentially avoidable. Genetic counseling, early identification and access to tertiary care would reduce the burden of childhood blindness in the local community.
Vision sufficient to qualify for a motor vehicle driving license was attainable in almost 30% of affected eyes. Visual acuity achieved at 6 years of age remained stable over the study period. Treatment of amblyopia is important to achieve this result.
This series shows that prolonged IOP control can be achieved in patients with PDG and 42% of the patients gained normal visual acuity.
In contrast to brimonidine, topical apraclonidine 0.5% can safely be administered for short-term treatment of most infants and children undergoing angle surgery for glaucoma, rarely producing systemic side effects.
Repeated short courses of oral glucocorticoids in the treatment of asthma seem to be reasonably safe; this practice was not associated with any lasting perturbation in bone metabolism, bone mineralization, or adrenal function.
This study found that there is no statistically significant difference in the incidence of complications between uncoated and PC-coated fluoroplastic Armstrong beveled TTs.
There are substantial differences in nasopharyngeal flora between children with nonsevere rAOM and children with cOME. The results of nasopharyngeal cultures should be taken into account to avoid treatment with drugs that are ineffective and likely to select resistant organisms.
The presence of a biofilm may slow the time to clear mucoid TT plugs, but it does not seem to affect the overall proportion of TTs that are unplugged.
Tympanostomy tube plug composition is more similar to mucoid effusion than to blood or cerumen. Solvents to open plugged tympanostomy tubes should be directed against the components of mucoid effusion.
Instant photography is helpful in managing dermatology referrals and offers the potential to reduce numbers requiring an out-patient appointment by 25%.
Clinical process redesign of perioperative services and collocation of a separate elective surgery centre improved (i) timeliness of care for elective surgery patients and (ii) key indicators (LOS and HIP rates) for planned elective admissions.
The guideline-based open access investigation service streamlined the process of out-patient referral, resulting in a more efficient service with reduced out-patient waiting times, fewer out-patient and investigation appointments and release of specialist and clinic time.
Waiting lists for dermatological consultations were substantially shortened by managed overbooking of patient appointments and centralization of the service.
The introduction of the 2-week wait rule has significantly reduced the time patients with bladder cancer wait for their first consultation with a specialist. However, there is no significant change in the time between first consultation and treatment.
Patients had cataract surgery sooner in the disease process in 2006-2007 compared with 1999-2000, with changes in visual acuity after surgery that were clinically significant in both cohorts.
The 'time to treat' interval was dramatically reduced following the introduction of EPR. Clinics using paper notes should consider switching to EPR as a means of improving STI recall efficiency.
Cardiac EASE reduced wait times, increased capacity and shortened time to achieve a diagnosis. The EASE model could shorten wait times for consultative services in Canada.
The shared care service maintained the lowest overall wait times, compared with the existing nonshared care services. The existing services experienced a decrease in the number of days waiting when the baseline wait time was compared with that of the following year.
The design of programs based on the spot payment should take the possible adverse effects into account establishing mechanisms to avoid the decrease in ordinary activity and the selection of patients on the basis of criteria different to clinical priorities.
The intervention optimised specialist medical health care in terms of the number of consultations and reduction of waiting time, with an improvement of these variables against SS.
There is a role for nurses to perform certain surgical procedures within a well-defined environment.
We believe a one-stop carpal tunnel clinic can be an efficient and cost-effective way of treating this common condition.
The use of a portable ultrasonography machine by an orthopaedic  surgeon can significantly reduce the time to treatment and the financial cost for patients with rotator cuff tears.
A surgical office with long new patient appointment wait times can improve access to clinic consultations by implementing this system.
This study demonstrated that one-stop investigation of PMB, compared to traditional outpatient clinics, reduced waiting times and theatre costs by reducing the number of hysteroscopies.
Access to our pediatric specialty care clinic was improved without increasing the number of providers by improved scheduling.
Providing physiotherapy via PhysioDirect is equally clinically effective compared with usual waiting list-based care, provides faster access to treatment, appears to be safe, and is broadly acceptable to patients. PhysioDirect is probably cost-effective compared with usual care.
PhysioDirect is equally clinically effective compared with usual care, provides faster access to physiotherapy, and seems to be safe. However, it could be associated with slightly lower patient satisfaction.
Our study showed that longer WT did not result in worse pre-operative HRQoL.
Larger randomised clinical studies with adequate statistical power are needed to confirm these potentially very important nonskeletal effects of vitamin D in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Our findings show a significant association of 25(OH)D with the degree of liver dysfunction and suggest that low 25(OH)D levels may predict hepatic decompensation and mortality in patients with chronic liver failure.
Curve progression was prevented in 58 %. Prognostic risk factors are a young age at initiation of brace treatment, a thoracic curve, unsatisfactory curve correction in the brace and a male gender.
SQLI is reliable and valid and demonstrates satisfactory distribution of scores. SQLI is a promising instrument in the assessment of AIS patients.
We were unable to identify any significant differences in brace treatment outcomes when comparing TLSO and SpineCor treated patients.
Although pain, disability, HRQOL, and psychological general well-being are quite satisfactory on an absolute level, curve size was found to be a significant predictor for pain in a long-term follow-up.
The thoracolumbosacral orthosis was superior at preventing curve progression in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
Bracing of male patients with idiopathic scoliosis is ineffective. Curves measuring > or =30 degrees are very likely to progress to surgery, especially in immature patients.
These long-term data confirm that the Boston brace when used 18 or more hours per day is effective in preventing progression of large curves at a mean of 9.8 years after bracing is discontinued.
: This study found a high degree of variability in opinion among clinicians concerning the effectiveness of bracing, suggesting that a randomized trial of bracing would be ethical.
Brace wearing did not decrease the QOL of adolescents, compared with their observed counterparts, in our study population.
Untreated adults with LIS are productive and functional at a high level at 50-year follow-up. Untreated LIS causes little physical impairment other than back pain and cosmetic concerns.
Pediatric OSA has a significant impact on QOL. QOL in pediatric OSA is similar to that of children with JRA. Large improvements in QOL occur after adenotonsillectomy, and these findings are maintained in the long-term. The literature lacks control studies on QOL in pediatric OSA.
Children with relatively mild SDB, ranging from primary snoring to OSA, have a higher prevalence of problem behaviors, with the strongest, most consistent associations for externalizing, hyperactive-type behaviors.
These results suggest that 6-MP or MTX added to prednisone could be effective in steroid sparing, as well as in achieving and maintaining remission in steroid-dependent IBD patients. MTX was less effective in maintaining remission in UC patients.
Methotrexate at a weekly oral dose of 12.5 mg was not found to be better than placebo in the induction or maintenance of remission in patients with chronic active ulcerative colitis.
Methotrexate may be useful in treating children with ulcerative colitis, although large, controlled trials are warranted to define better its effectiveness.
For induction of remission in steroid-requiring inflammatory bowel disease, subcutaneous methotrexate at initial doses of 15 and 25 mg/week are equally efficacious. At these doses, response is not associated with blood methotrexate concentrations.
Combination therapy with methotrexate and low-dose oral cyclosporine did not alter methotrexate pharmacokinetics and resulted in high rates of cyclosporine-associated toxicity.
Maintenance methotrexate treatment gives acceptable remission rates for treatment periods up to 3 years. After stopping treatment, relapse is frequent and occurs early (usually within 1 year).
Side effects of MTX in IBD are associated with a SNP in the MTHFR gene but response cannot be predicted by any of the investigated SNPs.
Although this pilot study is encouraging, further work is needed before methotrexate can be recommended for inflammatory bowel disease.
MTX appears to be effective to maintain clinical remission in UC, at least in the short-term, with an acceptable safety profile.
Subcutaneously administered MTX exhibits apparent efficacy, acceptance, tolerance, and safety in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis who are steroid-dependent and where purine analogs have been ineffective or intolerable.
Azathioprine is effective in patients with steroid-dependent or steroid-resistant ulcerative colitis. Methotrexate seems to be a good alternative in patients intolerant to or not responding to azathioprine.
Methotrexate appears effective in both CD and UC patients who fail to respond to or are intolerant to AZA/MP therapy.
Outcomes of studies in steroid-refractory patients may not be applicable to steroid-dependency. Trials are needed to define the correct approaches and new strategies to ameliorate the therapy of steroid-dependent ulcerative colitis.
In a group of patients with chronically active Crohn's disease, methotrexate was more effective than placebo in improving symptoms and reducing requirements for prednisone.
In patients with Crohn's disease who enter remission after treatment with methotrexate, a low dose of methotrexate maintains remission.
Cumulative methotrexate doses up to 5410 mg given up to 281 wk in patients with inflammatory bowel disease are associated with little hepatotoxicity. Surveillance liver biopsies based on cumulative methotrexate doses are not warranted in these patients.
Concurrent, continuous inhalation of amiloride and tobramycin for 6 months was not effective for the eradication of chronic B. dolosa airway infection in CF patients.
This study demonstrates phenotypic heterogeneity within the Bcc. Some trends can be observed at the genomovar level, but only B. cepacia genomovar VI could be differentiated unambiguously on the basis of its inability to grow on PCAT.
In this integrated analysis, ciclesonide was effective and well tolerated in children with persistent asthma.
In our study the efficacy on symptom control and lung function of the combination of a long-acting bronchodilator with inhaled corticosteroid is equal to doubling the dose of the inhaled corticosteroid in children still symptomatic on a moderate dose of inhaled corticosteroid.
The safety profile of BIS was similar to that of placebo, with no suppressive effect on adrenal function in patients 6 to 12 months of age with mild to moderate persistent asthma or recurrent wheeze.
In this integrated analysis, ciclesonide once daily administered in the morning is effective and well tolerated.
Montelukast treatment significantly increased the number of rescue-free days in symptomatic children with asthma.
In this retrospective study, the use of NIV decreased the rate of ventilator associated pneumonia and reduced the duration of oxygen requirement without prolonging the hospital stay.
NIV improves hypoxemia and the signs and symptoms of acute respiratory failure. NIV seems to afford these patients protection from endotracheal intubation.
In young infants with severe acute respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis, nCPAP rapidly unloads respiratory muscles and improves respiratory distress symptoms.
Preterm infants receiving assisted ventilation and those on home oxygen therapy are particularly at risk of RSV related hospitalisation. Serious adverse outcomes are however uncommon even among these high risk infants.
The use of continuous negative pressure improves the respiratory outcome for neonates with respiratory failure.
Early bubble CPAP reduced delivery room intubations, days on mechanical ventilation, postnatal steroid use and was associated with increased postnatal weight gain with no increased complications.
Nasal CPAP in combination with early treatment with Curosurf significantly improves oxygenation and reduces the subsequent need for mechanical ventilation in infants <30 weeks' gestational age with RDS.
The introduction of surfactant has led to decreased mortality and morbidity in very-low-birth-weight infants and to decreased use of resources both for infants who survive and for those who die.
Replacing iron-folic acid supplements with multiple micronutrient supplements in the package of health and nutrition interventions delivered to mothers during pregnancy will improve the impact of supplementation on birthweight and on child growth and development.
High adherence to a prenatal supplement schedule can be achieved when mothers have frequent contact with trained health workers and a reliable supply of supplements.
This review outlines the potential usefulness of the numerous adjunctive therapies for CAP and underlines the need for further research in the field.
Vagus nerve stimulation is an effective and safe adjunctive treatment for patients with refractory partial-onset seizures. It represents the advent of a new, nonpharmacologic treatment for epilepsy.
Monitoring the number of consecutive seizure-free days is a significant clinical outcome measure of VNS.
The efficacy of VNS improves during 12 months, and many subjects sustain >75% reductions in seizures.
The reduction of theta frequencies and the increase in power spectrum and synchronization of gamma bands can be related to VNS anticonvulsant mechanism. In addition, gamma modulation could also play a seizure-independent role in improving attentional performances.
The results indicate that VNS remains an effective adjunctive therapy for medically refractory partial seizures over a period of at least 1 year. Response during the first 3 months of treatment is predictive of long-term response.
VNS is an efficient, well-tolerated therapy for refractory epilepsy. It can induce progressive electrophysiological effect on epileptiform activity over time. This may reflect the mechanism of chronic action of VNS with desynchronization of EEG in achieving seizure control.
Eberconazole 1% cream is an effective treatment for fungal infections produced by dermatophytes, with a good safety and tolerability profile, and can be considered a good alternative for the treatment of dermatophytoses.
Soap-and-water wipes seem to be more effective in reducing skin infections compared with the no-treatment group.
One percent flutrimazole applied topically once a day in the treatment of fungal infections of the skin presents a better efficacy than bifonazole and a good tolerability.
Intranasal fentanyl showed kinetic and dynamic properties that are desirable for the management of acute, episodic (breakthrough) pain.
  Intranasal fentanyl at a dose of 2 μg/kg provides effective analgesia for pediatric ED patients with painful orthopedic trauma within 10 minutes of administration.
Among children with cystic fibrosis who have received alternate-day treatment with prednisone, boys, but not girls, have persistent growth impairment after treatment is discontinued.
For patients with corticosteroid-dependent allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, the addition of itraconazole can lead to improvement in the condition without added toxicity.
In this prospective study, headache, in particular migraine, at baseline slightly increased the odds of being fRA 11 years later.
The negative health impact of maltreatment prior to adulthood supports the need for early prevention and intervention to prevent initial and recurrent child abuse and improve capacity to meet healthcare needs of maltreated children.
Links between anxiety symptoms and pain-related outcomes in adolescents with chronic pain are complex. Assessing how an adolescent copes with his/her pain provides further understanding of this relationship.
Most families actively participated in the intervention. Interaction with an online coach may increase the benefit of this Internet behavioral pain management treatment program for adolescents.
Internet delivery of CBT for child anxiety offers promise as a way of increasing access to treatment for this population. Future research is needed to examine ways to increase treatment compliance and further enhance the impact of treatment.
There are very few pediatric MPTFs in Canada. These facilities exist in five of ten provinces, each within large urban centres. Limited accessibility leads to variable and prolonged wait times for pediatric patients suffering from chronic pain.
Although the rate of healing of simple bone cysts was low following injection of either bone marrow or methylprednisolone, the latter provided superior healing rates.
As use of local anaesthetic reduces bleeding without altering pain or distress in young children undergoing posterior deciduous tooth extraction, we should consider using as an adjunct to general anaesthesia.
Intraligamental lignocaine used for dental extraction under general anaesthesia in young children initially causes less pain after recovery, but this difference is not sustained over the first hour after dental extraction.
Pain following dental GA was the most prevalent and long lasting symptom of postoperative morbidity in this study. Reductions in operating time and improvement in pain control have the potential to reduce reported morbidity following dental GA.
This study suggests the preemptive use of tramadol as an alternative for the acute pain treatment after the removal of an impacted mandibular third molar carried out under local anesthesia.
The program improved asthma management in patients whose conditions were already under good medical control. The effects of the program were apparent a year after the conclusion of self-management training.
The presence of an anxiety or depressive disorder is highly associated with increased asthma symptom burden for youth with asthma.
These results indicate that the nuclear syndrome shows substantial heritability, although this is slightly lower than that for schizophrenia as defined by the DSM and ICD systems.
OPCRIT provides a convenient, reliable, rapid and valid approach to polydiagnostic assessment that can be used as an adjunct to conventional (but time consulting) best-estimate consensus diagnostic procedures.
These data suggest that unless carefully reviewed, diagnosis may be a major confounding factor in postmortem studies of brain tissue from subjects with schizophrenia.
The correlation within sibling pairs suggests that, contrary to the conclusion of some previous studies, some nuclear symptoms do show a degree of familiality and therefore perhaps heritability.
We found some psychotic disorder diagnoses to be more stable by ICD-10 than DSM-IV criteria in the same patients, with implications for revisions of both diagnostic systems.
Close supervision and follow-up by paediatric nurse specialists of preterm infants discharged early with tube feeding appears to increase duration of breast feeding. A randomised controlled trial to confirm these findings is warranted.
Ethiopian HBB training improved neonatal resuscitation knowledge and was well received. Lower trainer:trainee ratio was associated with increased MCQ scores. HBB eliminated baseline knowledge differences between Ethiopian healthworker cadres.
ENC training of clinic midwives who provide care in low-risk facilities is a low-cost intervention that can reduce early neonatal mortality in these settings.
Neither intervention in this study improved OC adherence among young women.
Our results suggest that parent-focused interventions could be an innovative and effective strategy to promote adolescents sexual health.
If further research confirms that simply bringing couples together for a single-session, culturally appropriate risk reduction intervention helps them adopt protective behaviors, more intensive (and costly) interventions may not be necessary.
Young teenagers may use OC less efficiently than condoms for pregnancy prevention. The characteristics of those using OC-only confirm vulnerability to unintended pregnancy, and suggest that alternative contraceptive strategies should be considered for these young women.
Many youth are using condoms and prescription birth control simultaneously, and these use rates can be increased through AIDS education interventions.
Condom social marketing interventions have advanced and achieved the goals of improving use and making condoms available in the private sector. It is time to manage interventions and influence markets to improve equity and sustainability.
Based on these findings, group-based comprehensive risk reduction was found to be an effective strategy to reduce adolescent pregnancy, HIV, and STIs. No conclusions could be drawn on the effectiveness of group-based abstinence education.
The effectiveness of long-acting reversible contraception is superior to that of contraceptive pills, patch, or ring and is not altered in adolescents and young women. (Funded by the Susan Thompson Buffet Foundation.).
Corticotomy-facilitated orthodontics can be a feasible treatment modality for adults seeking orthodontic treatment with reduced treatment times.
Micro-osteoperforation is an effective, comfortable, and safe procedure to accelerate tooth movement and significantly reduce the duration of orthodontic treatment.
In combination with the use of conventional orthodontic appliances, interseptal bone reduction can enhance the rate of canine movement when interseptal bone is sufficiently reduced in both thickness and depth following surgical criteria.
Accelerated osteogenic orthodontic treatment could accelerate space closing in Class III surgical patients and shorten preoperative orthodontic time. There were no influence on the movement pattern of anterior and posterior teeth during pre-surgical orthodontic treatment.
Accurate prediction of treatment duration for orthodontic alignment of palatally impacted maxillary canines is difficult. However, the mesiodistal position of the canine may be a useful predictor of treatment duration.
This prospective investigation showed that orthodontic/orthognathic surgical care was effective. The outcome of treatment was influenced only by the severity of the pretreatment skeletal discrepancy.
In hepatogastroenterology, there is an exponential increase in publication of meta-analyses but their quality is heterogeneous. In particular, the control of the biases has to be better performed.
In this example, the Cochrane review conclusion was neither robust nor valid. Representation of experts and different views on efficacy in the review group and extensive use of sensitivity analyses could probably improve quality control of reviews in areas of controversy.
Most Cochrane reviews of drug interventions considered adverse events. This was not the case for DARE reviews and for Cochrane reviews of nondrug interventions. This could be improved.
Industry supported reviews of drugs should be read with caution as they were less transparent, had few reservations about methodological limitations of the included trials, and had more favourable conclusions than the corresponding Cochrane reviews.
In the absence of good evidence to support prophylactic removal, there appears to be little justification for the removal of pathology-free impacted third molars.
Multiplicity of data can affect the findings of systematic reviews and meta-analyses. To reduce the risk of bias, reviews and meta-analyses should comply with prespecified protocols that clearly identify time points, intervention groups, and scales of interest.
We identified selective outcome reporting for trials of off-label use of gabapentin. This practice threatens the validity of evidence for the effectiveness of off-label interventions.
These results suggest that for patients with recent-onset dilated cardiomyopathy, IVIG does not augment the improvement in LVEF. However, in this overall cohort, LVEF improved significantly during follow-up, and the short-term prognosis remains favorable.
These data suggest that use of high-dose IVIG for treatment of acute myocarditis is associated with improved recovery of left ventricular function and with a tendency to better survival during the first year after presentation.
Immunoadsorption and subsequent IgG substitution improves cardiovascular function in DCM.
Therapy with intravenous high-dose IVIG may be a potentially useful treatment in selected patients if given early in the course of acute fulminant inflammatory DCM. A randomized, prospective trial is warranted to prove the real benefit of IVIG in this patient population.
In this series of patients with new-onset dilated cardiomyopathy treated with high-dose immune globulin, LVEF improved 17 EF units. The effectiveness of intravenous immune globulin therapy in this disorder should be evaluated in a randomized, multicenter trial.
Elevation of sFas and sFasL levels at initial presentation appear to be a good serological marker to predict the prognosis of acute myocarditis.
Fulminant myocarditis is a distinct clinical entity with an excellent long-term prognosis. Aggressive hemodynamic support is warranted for patients with this condition.
RDT has proven to be relatively sensitive and specific for the detection of meningococcal serogroups A/C/Y/W. We confirmed that these RDTs can be reliably operated by trained but non-specialised staff in basic health facilities.
The disappearance of NmA carriage among both vaccinated and unvaccinated populations is consistent with a vaccine-induced herd immunity effect.
The PsA-TT vaccine elicited a stronger response to group A antibody than the PsACWY vaccine. (Funded by the Meningitis Vaccine Project through a grant from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; Controlled-Trials.com numbers, ISRCTN78147026 and ISRCTN87739946.).
DCCs can be more beneficial for child nutrition and working mothers in households lacking childcare support than in those with support.
The results are consistent with an increasing body of knowledge that implicates an enriched, stimulating environment in beneficial psychological and behavioral outcomes. These findings have potential implications for the prevention of schizophrenia and criminal behavior.
Day care attendance in areas with low air pollution increases the risk of lower respiratory infections. Instead, in highly polluted areas, the infection rates do not increase.
Although day-care children in general suffer a greater risk of common infectious diseases, the extent of day care effect on risks of diarrhoeal illness and URI varies significantly by age and type of health insurance plan.
Administration of rhGH for 1 year after burn was safe and improved recovery. These salutary effects continued after rhGH treatment was discontinued.
Recombinant human growth hormone significantly lowers serum TNF-alpha levels after burn injury. This is consistent with the beneficial effect that rhGH has on the acute-phase response.
Low-dose recombinant human growth hormone successfully abates muscle catabolism and osteopenia induced by severe burn.
Propranolol is a strongly anabolic drug during the early, hypercatabolic period after burn. No synergistic effect between propranolol and GH was identified.
rhGH in combination with propranolol attenuates hypermetabolism and inflammation without the adverse side effects found with rhGH therapy alone.
Heavier, more muscular subjects, and subjects whose definitive surgical treatment is delayed are at the greatest risk for excess catabolism after burn. Sepsis and excessive hypermetabolism are also associated with protein catabolism.
Body composition of severely burned children significantly improved in the second year compared with the first year after injury. This demonstrates a need for long-term rehabilitation in these burn patients.
Data indicate that rhGH used in the treatment of children who were severely burned is safe and efficacious.
In patients with prolonged critical illness, high doses of growth hormone are associated with increased morbidity and mortality.
Indirect costs of RA to employers are significant and warrant further research to increase our understanding of the contribution of different RA treatment interventions to optimizing workforce productivity.
The NNT and NNH are helpful for clinicians, enabling them to translate the results from clinical trials and systematic reviews to use in routine clinical practice. Both NNT and NNH should be accompanied by a limited 95% CI and adjusted for the individual subject's baseline risk.
RA is a costly disorder and merits consideration as interventions are considered to improve workers' health and productivity.
Patients view clinically important differences in an asymmetric manner. These results can provide guidance in interpreting results and planning clinical trials.
The introduction of a commercially available physician computer order entry system was associated with a significant decrease in the rate of medication errors but not ADEs in an inpatient pediatric population.
The use of a preprinted structured order form significantly reduces medication errors among pediatric patients in the ED.
The tests performed with simulated clinical cases revealed that the number of errors made by the healthcare personnel who participated in this study was not inconsiderable. The use of Neodosis helped physicians and nurses to make markedly fewer errors and also saved them time.
The Web-based education program on the proper use of the Broselow Pediatric Resuscitation Tape could improve dosing accuracy and reduce dosing time.
A multifaceted, evidence-based model for safe prescribing guideline implementation, engaging multidisciplinary clinicians, was effective in reducing medication error and harm in hospitalized children, resulting in sustained long-term improvement.
The Paediatric Analgesia Wheel provides a time-efficient method of prescribing commonly used analgesic and anti-emetic drugs to children and results in improved accuracy when compared with using the BNFC.
The pharmacist-led training programme was effective, but the error rate remained relatively high. Further quality improvement strategies are needed, including changes to the working environment and promotion of a safety culture.
A large sample of incidents shows that many of the incidents are related to IT, both in community pharmacies and hospitals. The interaction between human and machine plays a pivotal role in IT incidents in both settings.
Unintercepted potential ADEs at the medication administration stage can cause serious patient harm. At hospitals where 6 million doses are administered per year, about 4000 preventable ADEs would be attributable to medication administration errors annually.
Medication errors are common in pediatric inpatient settings, and further efforts are needed to reduce them.
In this study, we found that a leading CPOE system often facilitated medication error risks, with many reported to occur frequently. As CPOE systems are implemented, clinicians and hospitals must attend to errors that these systems cause in addition to errors that they prevent.
Available evidence suggests some aspects of CPOE with decision support, ME, and IS may help in reducing medication errors. Good quality, prospective, observational studies are needed for institutions to determine the most effective interventions.
Medication errors are costly to the health care system. A better understanding of medication error costs may be used to justify initiatives to reduce the risk and inefficiency associated with these errors.
Serious pediatric computer-related errors are uncommon (3.6 errors per 1000 patient-days), but computer systems can introduce some new pediatric medication errors that are not typically seen in a paper ordering system.
GH treatment significantly improves weight and linear growth in young patients with CF. These data suggest that anabolic effects of GH may be beneficial for treatment of malnutrition in children with CF.
Treatment with IGF-1 for 6 months did not promote linear growth in prepubertal children with CF. However, the glucose/insulin ratio was increased without changing blood glucose levels with IGF-1 treatment suggesting increased insulin sensitivity.
Elevated ghrelin and decreased leptin levels are a consequence rather than a cause of weight loss in advanced CF.
Differences exist in ghrelin receptor expression in lymphocytes isolated from stable CF patients with different BMIs. These changes may be due to a disordered pathological response to weight loss.
A study of longer duration is needed to determine whether insulin glargine impacts protein catabolism and overall clinical status in CF patients, but these initial data suggest that this is a promising therapy in CFRD.
Results of the first randomized controlled trial of GH treatment in cystic fibrosis indicate that GH improves growth and clinical status.
These results suggest that GH is a useful for enhancing growth in children with cystic fibrosis receiving enteral nutritional supplementation.
Glargine treatment was well accepted and tolerated. No real efficacy in improving clinical and glycometabolic conditions was demonstrated. Further studies are necessary to test glargine at higher dosage and for a longer follow-up period.
Insulin therapy safely reversed chronic weight loss in patients with CFRD FH-.
These data suggest that in the group investigated, growth hormone therapy was well tolerated and had positive metabolic effects but did not result in short-term improvement of lung function in patients with cystic fibrosis.
Treatment with rhGH in prepubertal children with CF was effective in promoting growth, weight, LBM, lung volume, and lung flows, and had an acceptable safety profile.
As the overall clinical outcome of CF patients is related to the nutritional status and body weight, the role of ghrelin and leptin in these patients needs to be elucidated.
Body wasting is a significant predictor of survival in patients with CF independent of lung function, arterial blood oxygen and carbon dioxide tensions.
These data emphasise the close relationship between nutrition, lung function, and clinical course in CF. Normal body weight and absence of P aeruginosa infection was associated with better preservation of lung function.
A short course of montelukast, introduced at the first signs of an asthma episode, results in a modest reduction in acute health care resource utilization, symptoms, time off from school, and parental time off from work in children with intermittent asthma.
Montelukast added to usual treatment reduced the risk of worsened asthma symptoms and unscheduled physician visits during the predictable annual September asthma epidemic. Treatment-effect differences observed between age and gender groups require additional investigation.
Montelukast, 4-mg oral granules, was well tolerated over 6 weeks of treatment in children aged 6-24 months with asthma.
In preschool children presenting to a hospital with mild-to-moderate wheezing associated with a viral infection, oral prednisolone was not superior to placebo. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN58363576.)
Natamycin treatment was associated with significantly better clinical and microbiological outcomes than voriconazole treatment for smear-positive filamentous fungal keratitis, with much of the difference attributable to improved results in Fusarium cases.
2% Econazole appears to be as effective as 5% natamycin for the management of fungal keratitis.
This preliminary study justifies further trials of chlorhexidine as a primary treatment for fungal corneal ulcers in circumstances where specific antifungal agents are not available.
Chlorhexidine may have potential as an inexpensive topical agent for fungal keratitis and warrants further assessment as a first line treatment in situations where microbiological facilities and a range of antifungal agents are not available.
Topical natamycin should continue to be considered as the treatment of choice for filamentous fungal keratitis; when natamycin is unavailable, topical itraconazole therapy could be used, particularly if the infections are due to Aspergillus or Curvularia spp.
Ocular involvement occurred in 16% of patients with candidemia; however, endophthalmitis was uncommon (1.6%). Treatment with either voriconazole or amphotericin B followed by fluconazole was successful for ocular candidiasis in most cases with follow-up.
Candida was the principal isolate, usually from eyes with OSD or a prior PK treated with topical steroids.
Mapping the pattern of learning onto the known deficit space for amblyopia enabled the identification of tasks and stimulus configurations that optimized learning, guiding further development of learning-based interventions in this clinical group.
The results indicate that strabismic amblyopes have mechanisms for binocular summation of contrast and that the amblyopic deficits of binocularity can be simulated with an ND filter. The implications of these results for best clinical practice are discussed.
Asymmetries in magnitude of monocular activation do occur in subjects with amblyopia, but these basic measures are limited in terms of sensitivity for mild to moderate amblyopia and for specificity between subtypes.
These results support the suggestion from a prior study that strabismic amblyopia can improve and even resolve with spectacle correction alone. Larger studies with concurrent controls are needed to confirm or refute these findings.
Parvocellular and magnocellular function are differentially affected in the amblyopic and fellow eyes of subjects with strabismic amblyopia. The difference is more marked in late-onset amblyopia than in early-onset amblyopia.
The screening program for amblyopia and amblyogenic risk factors in infants, followed by appropriate treatment, is effective in significantly reducing the prevalence and severity of amblyopia in children.
This provides the basis for a new treatment of amblyopia, one that is purely binocular and aimed at reducing suppression as a first step.
This provides the basis for a new treatment of amblyopia, one that is purely binocular and aimed at reducing suppression as a first step.
The ATI is a useful instrument for assessing the impact of patching or atropine treatment on the child and family.
UVI itself does not appear to relate to visuomotor actions, except when associated with reduced stereoacuity. Stereoacuity appears to have an influential role in fine visuomotor actions and spatial representation in preschool children.
The dichoptic-based perceptual learning therapy employed in the present study improved both the monocular VA of the AE and stereofunction, verifying the feasibility of a binocular approach in the treatment of childhood amblyopia.
Binocular iPad treatment rapidly improved visual acuity, and visual acuity was stable for at least 3 months following the cessation of treatment.
Weekend atropine can improve visual acuity in children 3 to 12 years of age with severe amblyopia. Improvement may be greater in younger children.
Treatment with atropine or patching led to similar degrees of improvement among 7- to 12-year-olds with moderate amblyopia. About 1 in 5 achieved visual acuity of 20/25 or better in the amblyopic eye.
These preliminary results suggest that a-tDCS deserves further investigation as a potential tool to enhance amblyopia treatment outcomes in adults.
There are two methods of appropriately describing the outcome of amblyopia treatment: firstly, by the difference in final visual acuity of amblyopic and fellow eye (residual amblyopia); secondly, the proportion of the deficit corrected.
Factors influencing outcome with treatment for amblyopia are occlusion dose (the rate of delivery and cumulative dose worn), the initial severity of the amblyopia, binocular vision status, fixation of the amblyopic eye, and the age of the subject at the start of treatment.
Improvements in vision were demonstrable within a short period of time, in some children after 1 h of treatment. This system is an exciting and promising application of VR technology as a new treatment for amblyopia.
This study shows that compliance with patching treatment averages less than 50% and is influenced by several factors. A greater understanding of these influences should improve treatment outcome. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Fine motor skills were reduced in children with amblyopia, particularly those with strabismus, compared with control subjects. The deficits in motor performance were greatest on manual dexterity tasks requiring speed and accuracy.
Self-perception of social acceptance was lower in children treated for amblyopia compared with age-matched controls. A reduction in these scores was associated with a history of patching treatment but not with a history of strabismus or spectacle wear.
Clobazam was well tolerated, safe and more effective than phenytoin in the AED treatment of patients with SCG.
CBZ is an effective drug in rolandic epilepsy, but it may be associated with exacerbation of seizures as well as with cognitive-behavioural impairment. CLB in monotherapy seems to be an effective and better tolerated drug in this kind of epilepsy.
Intermittent clobazam therapy seems advantageous to diazepam due to similar efficacy but significantly lower adverse effects such as drowsiness and sedation.
Patients with severe forms of cystic fibrosis exhibit reduced growth velocity values at an early age, before a clear decline in pulmonary function.
The children in this sample did not consume the CF recommended intakes of 120% RDA for energy or a high-fat (40% of energy) diet. Energy intakes may be insufficient in this group to meet requirements for optimal growth.
Aggressive intervention early in life aimed at growth and nutrition and/or lung disease may affect pulmonary function.
Nutritional failure is present in a minority of Italian patients with CF, particularly during adolescence. Different auxologic indicators should be used for identifying children at risk for or with actual malnutrition.
Despite comprehensive care, the growth of boys with CF was impaired on the basis of height, fat-free mass, and fat mass, when observed longitudinally. Caution should be used when interpreting cross-sectional measurements because they often do not detect suboptimal growth.
This study confirms the findings of previous smaller-scale studies that reducing side effects and achieving better control of seizures are key to improving the quality of life of people with epilepsy, as is reducing the stigma and handicap associated with it.
These data help identify significant risk factors associated with seizure-related injuries and so facilitate sensible patient counseling about how the risks of such injuries can be minimized.
Overall, most patients with epilepsy will enter remission; however, there is a higher than expected risk of death, especially in those with symptomatic epilepsy.
The occurrence of seizures, even at low frequencies, is associated with psychosocial handicap, and this may remain covert in general practice.
Results suggest that when taking phenytoin sodium with food, product switches may result in either side effects or loss of seizure control.
Lactoferrin supplementation was associated with potentially beneficial outcomes such as significantly fewer lower respiratory tract illnesses and higher hematocrits. Larger, more focused studies in infants are warranted.
Although there was no decrease in diarrhea incidence, longitudinal prevalence and severity were decreased with LF.
Talactoferrin is a promising, well-tolerated new agent that should be evaluated further in patients with refractory metastatic cancer.
Lactoferrin displays potential as an adjunctive agent to vancomycin in the treatment of S. epidermidis biofilm infections, such as endophthalmitis, associated with intraocular lenses.
We present a short-term study providing level I evidence on the superiority of DSS over saline nasal irrigation for treatment of chronic rhinosinusitis.
As adjunctive therapy to oral antibiotic treatment, MFNS at doses of 200 microg or 400 microg, twice daily, was well tolerated and significantly more effective in reducing the symptoms of rhinosinusitis than antibiotic therapy alone.
This study continues the effort to identify otolaryngology workforce demographic profiles and make recommendations for a future national practice model. Continuous reassessment of the specialty is required.
ABS is a common complication of viral upper respiratory infections. Amoxicillin/potassium clavulanate results in significantly more cures and fewer failures than placebo, according to parental report of time to resolution of clinical symptoms.
Early laparoscopy did not show a clear benefit in women with NSLAP.
In young women with right lower abdominal pain, laparoscopy can give precise diagnosis and reduce the rate of negative appendectomies.
Laparoscopy reduces unnecessary appendectomies and improves diagnosis in fertile women.
Compared with active clinical observation, early laparoscopy did not show a clear benefit in women with NSAP. A higher number of diagnosis and a shorter hospital stay in the LAP group did not led to a significant reduction in symptoms recurrences at 1 year.
This prospective randomized study shows that laparoscopic appendectomy is superior to open appendectomy in terms of hospital stay, postoperative complications, and return to normal activities and is recommended as the approach of choice in the management of acute appendicitis.
Laparoscopic appendectomy is as safe as open appendectomy. The hospital costs are higher, but LA offers significant cost savings to the payer for working patients.
LA results in less postoperative pain and fewer wound infections. The laparoscopic procedure is technically more demanding to perform, resulting in longer operative time.
Laparoscopy did not improve analgesia and postoperative recovery after appendectomy in children.
Early laparoscopy is valuable in the management of acute abdomen. It provides a significantly higher diagnostic accuracy and a better improvement in quality of life than the more traditional approach observation.
There are significant clinical and financial costs incurred by patients undergoing NA during the treatment of presumed appendicitis. These should be considered when evaluating system-level interventions to improve the management of appendicitis.
More than twenty years after Semm performed the first laparoscopic appendicectomy, it is necessary to clarify the superiority of laparoscopic or open appendectomy with well-defined, carefully designed randomised studies.
Laparoscopy is an accurate modality for the diagnosis of both acute and chronic abdominal pain syndromes. These data support the use of laparoscopy as the primary invasive intervention in patients with acute and chronic abdominal pain.
Most children with recurrent cough without other evidence of airway obstruction, do not have asthma and neither inhaled salbutamol nor beclomethasone is beneficial.
DALK is an effective alternative surgical procedure for patients with keratoconus; the outcomes are comparable to PK in terms of refractive errors, BCVA, CSF, and HOAs.
Long-term BCVA, mean refractive spherical equivalent, and mean refractive cylinder after DALK with hydrodissection were similar to those after PKP.
In addition to its optical advantages, nonmechanical corneal trephination appears to have no adverse impact on cataract formation after PKP for keratoconus.
The use of the intrastromal corneal ring following penetrating keratoplasty caused no reduction of postoperative astigmatism. The reason for the spontaneous suture ruptures is unclear.
The use of the intrastromal corneal ring after penetrating keratoplasty caused no reduction in postoperative astigmatism. However, its use was statistically significantly associated with adverse events.
Lyophilized corneas can be used successfully for DALK to treat keratoconus with results similar to Optisol corneas.
There is a need for further studies with which to refine decision-making as regards the choice of operative techniques in PK.
The corneal anterior surface optical quality appeared significantly better after DALK than after ALTK and PK.
DALK is an alternative treatment option in eyes with moderate to advanced keratoconus, providing comparable results to PK in terms of visual acuity, refraction, CSF and HOA.
Lamellar keratoplasty with complete baring of the Descemet's membrane (DALKa) gave significantly better visual outcomes compared to PK or pre-descemetic ALK and should be the preferred from of corneal replacement in corneal disorders with healthy endothelium.
Corneal higher order aberrations, especially coma-like aberrations, are significantly higher in eyes with keratoconus than normal eyes. Coma-like aberrations, with the aid of a corneal aberrometry map, are good indicators for early detection and grading of keratoconus.
Intacs treatment with a femtosecond laser was effective for management of keratoconus of all stages. Improvement in UCVA may be less in severe keratoconus than in moderate keratoconus.
Visual acuity scores were significantly better on ETDRS charts compared to Snellen charts. The difference was greatest with poor visual acuity (<20/200) and in patients with exudative AMD. Thus, caution should be exercised when comparing data using the different charts.
Penetrating keratoplasty for patients with severe keratoconus seems to be a comparatively effective and cost-effective procedure when compared with other interventions across different medical specialties.
The Boston type I keratoprosthesis is an effective means of managing repeat corneal graft failure and corneal limbal stem cell failure with or without corneal opacification in patients with both unilateral and bilateral visual impairment.
Comparable to corneal transplantation, with a cost-effectiveness between $12 000 and $16 000 per QALY, the keratoprosthesis can be considered highly cost-effective.
The Boston keratoprosthesis type 1 seems to be a viable option for eyes that are not candidates for penetrating keratoplasty (PK). Ocular surface disease due to an autoimmune cause demonstrated the lowest retention rate.
The Boston Type 1 keratoprosthesis seems, based on early follow-up, to be a viable option after multiple failed corneal grafts or in some situations of a poor prognosis for primary penetrating keratoplasty.
Keratoprosthesis offers significant vision benefits in this patient group.
Boston keratoprosthesis seems to provide rapid visual recovery with excellent uncorrected acuity in the early postoperative period.
The KPro can be of value in patients with graft failure from herpetic keratitis, even in the inflamed stage. We believe that herpetic keratitis is not a contraindication for KPro use.
This keratoprosthesis is acceptably safe and has demonstrated an ability to restore vision in cases in which alternative management would have had a poor prognosis. More extensive trials are warranted.
Frozen and fresh corneal donors seem equally efficient and safe as carriers of the Boston KPro with similar recuperation of VA and no untoward complications, such as melt, leaks, or endophthalmitis.
Our study demonstrates an excellent retention rate of the Boston type 1 KPro and an improvement of BCVA in the majority of patients. Many patients undergoing KPro surgery have ocular comorbidities that require ongoing care to prevent further vision loss following KPro surgery.
Aphakic/pseudophakic corneal edema was the most common indication for PKP in a multicenter series in Greece followed by keratoconus. The number of regrafts dramatically increased during the 25-year period.
Premature infants in stable condition who receive enteral feedings while LUACs are in place do not have an increased incidence of feeding problems compared with infants who do not receive enteral feedings until 24 hours after removal of LUACs.
Growth-restricted infants born <29 weeks' gestation with abnormal antenatal Doppler failed to tolerate even the careful feeding regimen of ADEPT. A slower advancement of feeds may be required for these infants.
Early enteral feeding was associated with a reduced risk of NS but no change in the risk of NEC in VLBW infants. These findings support the use of early enteral feeding in this high risk population, but this needs to be confirmed in a large randomised controlled trial.
Center differences in enteral feeding advancement occur and may have a significant impact on short-term outcomes such as nosocomial sepsis. Large, multicenter, prospective trials are required to further elucidate the optimal feeding strategy for VLBW infants.
MCA Doppler may be a useful tool to assess the health of small fetuses in the late third trimester. Redistribution may occur in the presence of normal umbilical artery Doppler and should be suspected when the HC/AC ratio is elevated.
This study, based on a neonatal cohort, indicates that AREDF is an important independent risk factor for the production of NEC.
This study highlights areas of uncertainty and demonstrates marked variability in feeding practices. It provides valuable data for planning collaborative feeding trials to optimise outcome in preterm infants.
Recognition of this subset of patients may improve management when complications arise. Therapy directed at bronchiectasis rather than aimed at suppressing putative continued sarcoidosis activity appears to be more important at this late stage of disease.
The results demonstrated that the diagnostic accuracy of digital images is similar to that of conventional film radiography in the detection of non-cavitated approximal caries.
There was no significant difference in the durability of the MCR compared with the GSR in the treatment of occlusal caries. However, there was significantly better retention of the fissure sealant over the composite restoration than over the glass ionomer.
A restrictive attitude both to the frequency with which radiographs are taken and to operative treatment of proximal caries seems to be possible in young populations with low caries prevalence.
In the primary dentition, use of bitewing radiography increases the detection rate of proximal surface caries substantially. It is recommended that bitewing radiography be included as part of the routine examination of children with proximal surfaces that cannot be visualized.
The caries rate of an approximal tooth surface was 1.6-32.3 times higher if the adjacent surface was in a caries state compared to when the latter was sound.
The current clinical evidence suggests that complete retention of pit and fissure sealants may not be a valid surrogate endpoint for caries prevention as its clinical endpoint. Further research is required to corroborate the current results.
The authors found that sealants reduced bacteria in carious lesions, but that in some studies, low levels of bacteria persisted. These findings do not support reported concerns about poorer outcomes associated with inadvertently sealing caries.
The combination of nitazoxanide, peginterferon alfa-2a, and ribavirin increased the percentages of patients with RVR and SVR, compared with patients given peginterferon plus ribavirin, without an increase in adverse events.
Many important randomised clinical trials are published in the Journal of Hepatology, but there seems to be ample room for improvement of quality of reporting.
The present study shows a positive development, but the reported methodological quality of trials can still be improved.
A 3-day course of nitazoxanide suspension is as efficacious as a standard 5-day course of metronidazole suspension in treating giardiasis in children.
According to the present survey, new diagnostic and therapeutic concepts on NPH have penetrated daily routine to a certain extent. Wide variability, however, still exists among different neurosurgical centers.
We considered the prevalence of possible iNPH in elderly adults to be 1.4% (95% confidence interval = 0.6-2.9%).
Our results suggest motivational interviewing leads to an improvement in patients' mood 3 months after stroke.
Results suggest that motivational interviewing improves patients' mood and reduces mortality 12 months poststroke.
A brief psychosocial-behavioral intervention is highly effective in reducing depression in both the short and long term.
PIVC survival is improved by preferential forearm insertion, selection of appropriate PIVC diameter, and insertion by intravenous teams and other specialists.
Maximal sterile barrier proved to be an effective and recommended practice. However surveillance skin cultures revealed the common and changing nature of colonization of skin at the insertion site.
Chlorhexidine dressings would reduce costs, local infections and CRBSIs, and deaths. Use of chlorhexidine dressings should be considered to prevent infections among patients with catheters.
We demonstrate a novel device allowing faster and more efficacious fixation of the infusion drip tubing and catheter suggested as the technique of choice in emergency medical field care.
An evidence-based intervention resulted in a large and sustained reduction (up to 66%) in rates of catheter-related bloodstream infection that was maintained throughout the 18-month study period.
According to the present study, an early surgery (angular value lower than 35-40 degrees) dramatically reduces the rate of risk factors associated with spinal deformities in DMD, and its advantages far exceed the disadvantages, above all in terms of quality of life.
Spinal stabilisation in Duchenne muscular dystrophy does not alter the decline in pulmonary function, nor does it improve survival.
Our results indicate that apical axial derotation can be well achieved with posterior only pedicle screw fixation in patients with neuromuscular scoliosis without any need for an anterior release procedure.
Posterior spinal fusion for scoliosis in DMD is associated with a significant decrease in the rate of respiratory decline postsurgery compared with presurgery rates.
Ertapenem can be used as effectively and safely as ceftriaxone for the treatment of complicated infections. It is an appealing option for the treatment of these complicated infections.
TGC achieved cure rates similar to those of LEV in hospitalized patients with CAP. For patients with risk factors, TGC provided generally favorable clinical outcomes.
Clarithromycin ER demonstrated equivalent efficacy and tolerability to the fluoroquinolone levofloxacin in a group of ambulatory adult patients with CAP. Clarithromycin ER also appeared to be safe in the population studied.
This analysis suggests that sparfloxacin would be an alternative candidate for empirical therapy in moderately severe CAP.
Under PCT guidance, antibiotic use was reduced and duration of antibiotic treatment was shortened in low-risk outpatients with CAP, without apparent harm.
GFX, 600 mg qd, was equivalent to CLA, 500 mg bid, in treating adult patients with CAP. Both treatments were well tolerated.
This study demonstrates that clarithromycin and cefixime are effective treatments for pneumonia and acute bacterial exacerbations of bronchitis of mild to moderate severity caused by the most common infecting organisms.
The outpatient management of CAP by general practitioners working at emergency rooms was clinically effective with low rates of hospital admission and mortality.
Procalcitonin protocol use in hospitalized CAP patients, although promising, lacks physician nonadherence and resource use data in routine care settings, which are needed to evaluate its potential role in patient care.
Although the study was prematurely terminated, resulting in inadequate power to demonstrate equivalence, once-daily clarithromycin ER was effective and well tolerated in the treatment of ambulatory adult (age > or = 18 years) outpatients with CAP.
In this study, PRI 3 g daily was clinically as effective and well tolerated as AMX 3 g daily, for 7 to 10 days, in PPc, in the treatment of bacterial community-acquired pneumonia.
Tifacogin showed no mortality benefit in patients with sCAP despite evidence of biologic activity.
The use of CS may allow decreased dosages and concentrations of CsA causing fewer side effects without an increased risk of acute rejection. In addition, CS with reduced dose CsA may decrease proteinuria and retard CAN progression.
Intermittent inhaled corticosteroid therapy had no effect on the progression from episodic to persistent wheezing and no short-term benefit during episodes of wheezing in the first three years of life. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
A 1-week treatment with nebulized BDP and prn salbutamol is effective in increasing SFDs and improving cough in children with wheezing, providing a clinical rationale for the short term use of ICS in episodic wheeze exacerbations in pre-school children.
Though the consensus was minimal, there were many recommendations in the literature for investigating clinical heterogeneity in systematic reviews. Formal recommendations for investigating clinical heterogeneity in systematic reviews of controlled trials are required.
Neonatal care is provided by most of the responding humanitarian organizations; however, the quality, breadth and consistency of this care are limited.
This trial supports education about infection control, for staff and children in child care, as a means of reducing transmission of diarrhea. Reduction in episodes of diarrhea in children in child care was limited to children over 24 months of age.
The use of hand sanitizer as a complement to handwashing with soap is an efficient measure to reduce absent days and the number of school absenteeism cases due to AGE.
ABH effectively prevent ADD and ARI, and are safe. Colombia's national public health policies for prevention of these diseases should include use of ABH, especially in settings where handwashing with soap and water is limited by water availability.
Daily use of the instant hand sanitizer was associated with significantly lower rates of illness-related absenteeism.
A three finger direct imprint test using MacConkey agar for thermotolerant coliforms was not a useful method to assess regular handwashing practices with soap in Karachi. Developing better measures of handwashing behaviour remains an important research priority.
A scheduled hand-washing program will reduce acute communicable (gastrointestinal) illnesses in elementary school-age children.
Handwashing with soap and water showed the greatest efficacy in removing C. difficile and should be performed preferentially over the use of alcohol-based handrubs when contact with C. difficile is suspected or likely.
The provision of hand sanitiser in addition to usual hand hygiene in primary schools in New Zealand did not prevent disease of severity sufficient to cause school absence.
Disease control measures for vivax malaria and diarrhoeal disease have the potential to improve the growth of children in endemic areas.
The findings suggest that it is not where the child defecates that matters but how the mother then deals with the child's stools.
Community psychiatric nurses can safely and effectively deliver a brief CBT intervention to patients with schizophrenia and their carers.
It is unlikely that early prevention gains can be maintained without additional prevention efforts during high school. Future research is needed to develop and test such efforts.
The course is acceptable, scalable and fidelity is assured. It increased knowledge regarding alcohol and cannabis, and decreased use of these drugs.
While further research is required to determine fully the processes of change, this study shows that a focus on general cognitive skills and positive changes to the social environment of the school can have a substantial impact on important health risk behaviours.
This particular adaptation of MI is ineffective as a universal drug prevention intervention and does not merit further study.
Risk-related behaviors were substantially reduced for students who participated in the program, providing evidence that a comprehensive school-based program can have a strong beneficial effect on student behavior.
Project TND reduced hard drug use in the 46% who were successfully followed. It is the first program to demonstrate long-term self-reported behavioral effects on hard drug use among high-risk youth by using a school-based, limited-session model.
Project TND is the first program to demonstrate 1-year self-reported behavioral effects on alcohol use and hard drug use among older, high-risk youth by using a school-based, limited-session model.
These results suggest that this program (Project Towards No Drug Abuse) has applicability to a wide range of older teens.
Project TND shows maintenance of effects on some drugs 2 years after program implementation, when most youth were young adults. More work is needed to learn how to maintain effects across substances. Continued exploration of modalities of implementation may be helpful.
This study adds new evidence on the effectiveness of the Unplugged school-based prevention program for primary school students in the Czech Republic.
This study shows the Healthy School and Drugs project as implemented in Holland may have some effect on drug use in the children exposed to it.
Findings suggest that universal prevention programs can be effective for a range of youth along a continuum of risk.
The social influence program in the experimental group showed remarkable effectiveness. Thus, the program may be useful for preventing drug abuse among high school students in Japan.
Primary prevention programs are able to reach and influence high-risk adolescents in a nonstigmatizing manner.
While the program effects of previous studies were replicated, the study failed to demonstrate that an adequately implemented MI booster was of incremental value at 1-year follow-up.
DARE's short-term effectiveness for reducing or preventing drug use behavior is small and is less than for interactive prevention programs.
Findings support the view that cannabis may act as a gateway drug that encourages other forms of illicit drug use. None the less, the possibility remains that the association is non-causal and reflects factors that were not adequately controlled in the analysis.
The risk of increasing seizure is not increased with acupuncture treatment for cerebral palsy.
Locking plates are a safe and effective treatment for children and adolescents with femur fractures that may not be amenable to other current means of stabilization.
Although children were more anxious during i.v. induction than inhalation induction, there was no difference in the incidence of behavioural disturbances in the first 2 weeks postoperatively.
In children undergoing strabismus surgery, 1 mg/kg propofol at the end of surgery after discontinuation of sevoflurane decreases the incidence of agitation and improves parents' satisfaction without delaying discharge from the postanesthesia care unit.
Clonidine 3 micrograms kg-1 prevented agitation after sevoflurane anaesthesia, independently of the route of administration. The effect of clonidine appears to be dose-dependent, as an epidural dose of 1 microgram kg-1 failed to reduce it.
The association of sevoflurane for induction and isoflurane for maintenance produced significant less postoperative agitation in preschool children receiving regional anesthesia during subumbilical surgery compared with sevoflurane for induction and maintenance.
Awakening and recovery are significantly faster with sevoflurane than with halothane, while the incidence of side effects are similar with the 2 agents.
Bolus administration of propofol after sevoflurane anesthesia prolonged recovery time, but did not inhibit sevoflurane agitation compared with sevoflurane anesthesia alone.
Apart from more postoperative agitation and pain after awakening from sevoflurane, the quality of recovery was similar for both sevoflurane and halothane.
We conclude that 0.5 microg.kg(-1) dexmedetomidine reduces agitation after sevoflurane anesthesia in children undergoing adenotonsillectomy.
Sevoflurane is superior to halothane for rapid elimination in infant outpatient surgery as gauged by observation of end-tidal concentration elimination curves recorded with a respiratory agent monitor. No other postoperative side-effect was evident in sevoflurane anesthesia.
Premedication with oral midazolam is safe, convenient and effective in decreasing the occurrence of sevoflurane-induced EA. It does not delay discharge from PACU and is suitable for outpatient surgery.
After intermediate duration of anaesthesia administered to children for up to 90 min, isoflurane and sevoflurane allow recovery after approximatively the same lapse of time.
Findings demonstrate that i.v. clonidine administered after induction of anesthesia significantly reduces the incidence of EA in young children, but is associated with sleepiness postoperatively.
In our randomized controlled study, we found no difference in the incidence of EA or ED between sevoflurane and isoflurane. Therefore, the decision to use one or the other should not be based upon the incidence of EA or ED.
Oxycodone reduced the frequency of agitation in children who received halothane, but not in the children who received sevoflurane anaesthesia.
The perioperative infusion of 0.2 microg.kg(-1).h(-1) dexmedetomidine decreases the incidence and frequency of ED in children after sevoflurane-based GA without prolonging the time to extubate or discharge.
In comparison with midazolam, clonidine 4 microg kg-1 reduced sevoflurane-induced emergence agitation without increasing postoperative side-effects.
Parental presence during emergence from anesthesia did not decrease the incidence or severity of emergence distress behaviour in children. Young children and children with a history of temper tantrums or separation anxiety may be more likely to develop such behaviour.
Oral premedication with midazolam delays early recovery but not discharge after ambulatory sevoflurane anesthesia induced with propofol in children one to three years. Midazolam did not improve the quality of recovery.
Addition of dexmedetomidine or clonidine to caudal bupivacaine significantly promoted analgesia in children undergoing lower abdominal surgeries with no significant advantage of dexmedetomidine over clonidine and without an increase in incidence of side-effects.
Sevoflurane for sedation produces faster recovery of cognitive function as measured by DSST and memory scores compared with midazolam. However, sevoflurane for sedation is complicated by a high incidence of intraoperative excitement.
Children who are premedicated with midazolam before surgery have fewer negative behavioral changes during the first postoperative week.
A high-dose remifentanil-propofol infusion was associated with a higher blood pressure and lower heart rate than sevoflurane-fentanyl anesthesia in infants. Postoperative morphine consumption, recovery time and quality were similar.
There was no statistical difference between the 0.35 mg.kg-1 dose and the fixed 12.5 mg dose of dolasetron with both reducing the incidence of POV.
Aliskiren is an effective alternative agent for blood pressure management. Before aliskiren can be recommended as a routine first-line agent, however, clinical studies must explore if the blood pressure-lowering effect will translate into improvement in cardiovascular outcomes.
Agitation observed during sevoflurane induction was not associated with seizures. Sevoflurane induction induced a marked inhibition of parasympathetic control of heart rate.
This meta-analysis revealed that emergence agitation occurred more frequently with sevoflurane than with halothane anesthesia in children.
Domperidone is a unique gastrokinetic and antiemetic drug. Because of its favorable safety profile, domperidone appears to be an attractive alternative to metoclopramide. In the management of diabetic gastropathy, domperidone's antiemetic activity distinguishes it from cisapride.
Maternal androgen levels in mid-pregnancy are negatively associated with breastfeeding.
Interactions with providers about milk supply concern evoke strong emotions among mothers. Providers should be aware that how they communicate routine advice regarding infant weight and formula may have unintended consequences, including discontinuation of breastfeeding.
Higher serum insulin secretion relative to serum glucose after a glucose challenge and higher serum adiponectin are associated with earlier onset of OL. These findings suggest that factors associated with better glucose tolerance predict earlier OL.
This interventional study provides preliminary Class I evidence that adjunctive BRV was efficacious and well-tolerated in patients aged 16-65 years with POS.
Our findings show that brivaracetam clearly suppresses generalized photoparoxysmal EEG response. As such, investigations of the antiepileptic properties and tolerability of brivaracetam are warranted in further clinical studies of patients with epilepsy.
We do not recommend adding i.m. clonidine (2 microg x kg(-1)) to the analgesic regimen of children undergoing tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy.
These data indicate that, even in pediatric surgery, the combination of 4 micrograms/kg and 0.03 mg/kg oral clonidine is an effective premedication. However, the safety and optimal dose of clonidine in this setting remain to be determined.
The results of this study demonstrate that ketamine is an effective drug for the treatment of paradoxical reaction following intravenous midazolam premedication. The exact mechanisms of these reactions and how it is aborted by ketamine are not clear.
Rectal administration of 2.5 micrograms.kg-1 of clonidine in children, approximately 20 min before induction of anesthesia, achieves plasma concentrations within the range known to be clinically effective in adults.
The benefits of spectacle correction for infants with hyperopia can be achieved without impairing the normal developmental regulation of refraction.
Refractive errors greater than 2.5 D were seldom seen in this study, and yet were more frequently detected in families with a history of strabismus. In our opinion, isotropic photorefraction is a method most suitable to screening these especially high-risk groups.
Most sudden epilepsy deaths are unwitnessed. Where witnessed most occur in association with a seizure and respiratory compromise is a prominent feature. Positioning or stimulation of respiration may be important in the prevention of these deaths.
The variation we found, although not necessarily in tune with the guidelines, reflects the variation in patients' need for knowledge about their condition.
These findings indicate that oxygenation prevents sudden death in seizure-prone mice and suggest that oxygenation may protect some seizure-prone humans at risk for SUDEP.
Overall TI procedure success rates were poor. Providers with advanced training were more likely to be successful. Patient factors were not associated with TI success.
We recommend that a duration of 30 seconds is a reasonable guideline for neonatal intubation during resuscitation.
Brief just-in-time multidisciplinary simulation-based intubation refresher training did not improve the resident's first attempt or overall tracheal intubation success.
Early adjunctive corticosteroid therapy can improve survival and decrease the occurrence of respiratory failure in patients with AIDS and severe P. carinii pneumonia.
In HIV-exposed infants with clinical PCP, adjunctive corticosteroid treatment does not appear to add benefit regarding time to recovery or oxygen independency, but early administration may improve survival. A large multicentred trial is needed to confirm these findings.
Adjunctive corticosteroids do not increase mortality or the risk of most common HIV-associated complications.
These preliminary data suggest that high-dose adjunctive corticosteroids may accelerate recovery in cases of severe adult non-HIV PCP.
Corticosteroids administered in addition to antimicrobials and supportive care improve the short-term survival of HIV-infected children who have acute respiratory failure due to PCP.
CKD is a risk for hypoglycemia, with or without diabetes. The excessive mortality associated with hypoglycemia makes this complication a significant threat to patient safety in CKD.
Good glycemic control (HbA1c <7.5%) predicts better survival of diabetic ESRD patients starting hemodialysis treatment.
In diabetic CKD patients on regular hemodialysis, poor glycemic control is an independent predictor of prognosis. This finding indicates the importance of careful management of glycemic control even after initiation of hemodialysis.
Exposure to etomidate is a modifiable risk factor for the development of AI in this sample of critically injured patients. The use of etomidate for procedural sedation and rapid-sequence intubation in this patient population should be reevaluated.
Our data imply that even one single bolus of etomidate negatively influences adrenal function for at least 24h. It might therefore increase risk of death.
A single bolus of etomidate blunts the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response for more than 24 h in patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery, but this was not associated with an increase in vasopressor requirements.
There is an increased rate of AI and mortality in critically ill patients who received etomidate.
Administration of etomidate for rapid sequence intubation is associated with higher rates of adrenal insufficiency and mortality in patients with sepsis.
Detained men with mild-moderate intellectual disabilities and histories of severe aggression can successfully engage in, and benefit from, an intensive individual cognitive-behavioural anger treatment that also appears to have beneficial systemic effects.
Use of a specialist behavior therapy team in addition to standard treatment appears to be more effective in improving challenging behavior and may have financial advantages over standard treatment.
Findings showed DRO to be more effective than the other interventions in improving self-care behaviors. Comparisons of the GAS mean baseline and mean intervention scores in all three interventions demonstrated the actual improvement in the self-care behaviors.
Several biological, psychotherapeutic and contextual interventions effectively reduce challenging behaviours among persons with ID.
The emerging literature is encouraging. However, it is limited through concatenated data, a lack of comparative control groups and small study samples.
This is a first step towards intervention trials, and identifying subpopulations for more proactive measures. Public health strategy and policy that is appropriate for this population should be developed.
This study showed that MEBO ointment for topical treatment of burn injuries presents an attractive alternative for the topical treatment of limited partial thickness thermal burns.
Linking antibiotic administration within 4 h of hospital admission (as a quality indicator) to financial compensation may result in an inaccurate diagnosis of CAP, inappropriate utilization of antibiotics, and thus less than optimal care.
Moderate pre-pregnancy caffeinated coffee consumption may have a protective association with GDM. Prospective studies, including a wider range of consumption habits, are necessary.
There is no evidence to support a teratogenic effect of caffeine in humans. Current epidemiologic evidence is not adequate to assess the possibility of a small change in risk of congenital anomalies resulting from maternal caffeine consumption.
A high intake of caffeine prior to pregnancy seems to be associated with an increased risk of spontaneous abortion, whereas a low-to-moderate alcohol intake does not influence the risk.
Treatment of achalasia with botulinum toxin was as effective as pneumatic dilation in relieving symptoms and improving esophageal function. The effect of the first injection was temporary, but the effect of the second injection lasted longer.
Pneumatic dilatation is more efficacious than botulinum toxin in providing sustained symptomatic relief in patients with achalasia. The efficacy of a single pneumatic dilatation is similar to that of two botulinum toxin injections.
At one year pneumatic dilatation is more effective than botulinum toxin. Symptom improvement parallels objective oesophageal measurements after pneumatic dilatation but not after botulinum toxin treatment for achalasia.
The efficiency of the combination of 100 U BT administration and small balloon dilation is superior to the single modality approach.
This multicentre series confirms that intrasphincteric injection of BT is a safe procedure, resulting in clinical improvement in 60% of patients with achalasia at six months. The therapeutic role of BT in achalasia needs further evaluation with regard to other alternatives.
The short-term outcome of POEM for achalasia was excellent; further studies on long-term efficacy and on comparison of POEM with other interventional therapies are awaited.
Endoscopic submucosal esophageal myotomy is feasible, safe, and effective in the short term. It has the potential for being useful in patients with achalasia. The submucosal space is a novel and potentially important field of operation for endoscopic procedures.
Successful management of achalasia can be complex and may require more than one treatment modality. PD and HM are presently the best treatments for untreated achalasia with similar efficacy but greater PPI use after surgery. Both are less successful after prior HM.
Preoperative preparation of the abdomen with a scrub with povidone-iodine soap followed by a paint with aqueous povidone-iodine can be abandoned in favor of a paint with aqueous povidone-iodine alone. This change will result in reductions in operative times and costs.
ChloraPrep is more effective than DuraPrep and povidone-iodine at eliminating overall bacteria from the shoulder region. Both ChloraPrep and DuraPrep are more effective than povidone-iodine at eliminating coagulase-negative Staphylococcus from the shoulder.
The antibacterial efficacy of chlorhexidine-ethanol and povidone-iodine is comparable in open hernia repair.
Skin preparation solution is an important factor in the prevention of surgical-site infections. Iodophor-based compounds may be superior to chlorhexidine for this purpose in general surgery patients.
Preoperative cleansing of the patient's skin with chlorhexidine-alcohol is superior to cleansing with povidone-iodine for preventing surgical-site infection after clean-contaminated surgery. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Fusidic acid-heparin lock solution reduced the incidence of CRBSIs in our neonatal intensive care unit. However, we recommend basing antibiotic lock on local CRBSI epidemiology. With regard to fusidic acid, further and broader studies could be useful to confirm our results.
This review confirms that antibiotic locking solutions reduce the frequency of CRI without significant side effects.
Although standardizing central-line care elements led to a significant statewide decline in NICU CLABSIs, site of care remains an independent risk factor. Using maintenance checklists reduced CLABSIs.
Our data suggest that catheter duration is an important risk factor for PICC-associated CLA-BSI in the NICU. A significant daily increase in the risk of CLA-BSI after 35 days may warrant PICC replacement if intravascular access is necessary beyond that period.
To add a disinfectable, needle-free connector to the CDC recommendations reduces the incidence of catheter-related bloodstream infection in critically ill patients with central venous catheters.
In this rural sample, African American and white youth were equally likely to have psychiatric disorders, but African Americans were less likely to use specialty mental health services. School services provided care to the largest number of youths of both ethnic groups.
Routine measurement and feedback can be used to improve outcomes for youths who receive typical home-based services in the community.
The authors found that children with specific patterns of psychopathology with and without conduct disorder were at risk of later criminality. Effective identification and treatment of children with such patterns may reduce later crime.
The current state of evidence appears to support the efficacy and effectiveness of feedback interventions in enhancing treatment outcome.
The results confirm and quantify the causal relationships with smoking.
These results support the hypothesis that active smoking is associated with increased breast cancer risk for women who initiate smoking before first birth and suggest that smoking might play a role in breast cancer initiation.
Smoking in internationally distributed US movies predicts trying smoking among German adolescents, closely replicating findings from a longitudinal study of white US adolescents. Smoking in these movies could have important worldwide public health implications.
The risk of COPD is higher for ever smokers than never smokers in Chinese population. The risk of COPD is higher for female smokers than male smokers. The risk of COPD is higher with greater smoking index.
Albuterol appears to reduce the likelihood that patients with acute bronchitis will be coughing after 7 days following initiation of treatment. This effect appears to be independent of cigarette smoking or the concomitant use of antibiotics.
Oral albuterol should not be used in unselected patients with acute, nonspecific cough.
Infectious diseases are responsible for a substantial proportion of outpatient visits to physicians in the United States. Upper respiratory tract infections account for the largest proportion of these visits.
Future studies should further evaluate the clinical and economic sequelae of overtreatment of suspected fractures. Clinicians should examine alternatives to "empirical" treatment without definite diagnosis based on their local facilities and patient demographics.
In an Australian tertiary hospital with MRI facility, the early use of MRI is a sensitive and practical way to diagnose occult scaphoid fractures and saves unnecessary immobilisation.
We recommend that high-frequency ultrasound be used to investigate occult suspected scaphoid fractures because of its ability to allow early diagnosis and to eliminate the need for a more invasive or expensive diagnostic test in most cases.
This study did not demonstrate a true long-term benefit of internal fixation, compared with nonoperative treatment, for acute nondisplaced or minimally displaced scaphoid fractures. The long-term risks of surgery should be considered when recommending operative treatment.
Water fluoride was an important factor responsible for the low caries prevalence. The prevalence of fluorosis and low caries even in low fluoride areas may point to a halo effect.
Home water fluoridation had little effect on the variables measured. These findings appear to be due to fluoride exposure from fluoridated dentifrices, fluoridated drinking water at school, and the fluoride "halo" effect.
Once-daily indacaterol is an effective 24 h bronchodilator that improves symptoms and health status and confers clinical improvements over a twice-daily 12 h LABA as a treatment for patients with moderate to severe COPD.
Indacaterol was an effective once-daily bronchodilator and was at least as effective as tiotropium in improving clinical outcomes for patients with COPD. Clinical trial registered with clinicaltrials.gov (
Indacaterol 150 microg o.d. provided clinically significant and sustained bronchodilation, reduced rescue medication use, and had a safety and tolerability profile similar to placebo.
Indacaterol provided clinically significant bronchodilation and improvements in dyspnoea and health status in Asian COPD patients.
Indacaterol demonstrated clinically relevant improvements versus placebo in lung function, dyspnea and health status in Asian COPD patients irrespective of disease severity.
During 1 year of treatment, indacaterol was well tolerated and provided significant and well-maintained bronchodilation that was accompanied by improved clinical outcomes.
Indacaterol provided clinically important improvements in dyspnoea and health status that were at least as good as and often better than those observed with existing bronchodilator treatments for COPD.
Indacaterol is effective and well-tolerated as a bronchodilator for the maintenance of moderate to severe COPD.
Recognition that these two trials cannot be used to look at hot flash frequency or score changes from baseline limits their ability to inform the efficacy literature about the use of newer antidepressants for hot flash reduction.
Fundholding has helped to curb increases in prescribing costs, even among dispensing general practitioners, for whom the incentives are different. Indicative prescribing amounts for non-fundholding practices do not seem to have had the same effect.
Early reports of the effectiveness of fundholding in curbing prescribing costs have not been confirmed in this longer term study.
The indicators for DM were significantly higher than those of HT group during the implementation phase of the GB. The GB program implemented by the NHI in Taiwan slightly slowed the trend of hospital-based ambulatory prescription costs of DM, but not HT.
There were substantial improvements in quality for all indicators between 2001 and 2007. Improvements associated with financial incentives seem to have been achieved at the expense of small detrimental effects on aspects of care that were not incentivised.
After fundholders joined the fundholding scheme their patterns of prescribing changed compared with those of non-fundholders: the rate of increase in costs fell and there was a significant rise in the rate of generic prescribing.
With the acquisition of fundholding status, the structure of incentives facing practices changes. Our results suggest that, with respect to prescribing, practices adjust rapidly to the new incentive structure.
Adherence to three of the prescribing indicators increased after the introduction of decentralized drug budgets. Workplaces with a public employer showed greater adherence to two of the prescribing indicators than private sector workplaces.
The prescribing behaviour of non-fundholding general practitioners responded to financial incentives in a similar way to that of fundholding practitioners. The incentive scheme did not seem to reduce the quality of prescribing.
ARBs accounted for only 9.3% of the 213% increase in antihypertensive drug expenditure after their introduction. A substantial portion of the impact reflected increases in treatment prevalence and in the number of prescriptions per patient.
Physicians' responses to a P4P program with a small maximum bonus do not differ by frequency of bonus payment.
In this example of hormone therapy for prostate cancer, decreased physician reimbursement was associated with a reduction in overtreatment without a reduction in needed services.
The interventions did not appear to directly influence the GDR. Financial incentives expressed to consumers through benefit designs have a large influence on their switching to generic drugs and on the less-costly mail-order mode of purchase.
The new reimbursement policy for statins has had a great impact on physicians' prescribing of statins in Norway. Physicians in Norway acknowledge the importance of contributing to cost containment.
Short-term relative reductions in mortality for conditions linked to financial incentives in hospitals participating in a pay-for-performance program in England were not maintained.
The prescribing of relevant drugs increased before the introduction of the 2004 GMS contract; the increase continued in the first 2 years of the new contract but at a significantly lower level.
Our findings suggest that a global budgeting system with special reimbursement provisions for certain treatment categories may alter treatment decisions and may undermine cost-containment goals, particularly among for-profit hospitals.
Patients treated with neuroleptic medications, especially clozapine, showed autonomic dysregulation and cardiac repolarisation changes. Physicians should be aware of this adverse reaction.
For these patients with schizophrenia who prospectively failed to improve with an atypical antipsychotic, clozapine was more effective than switching to another newer atypical antipsychotic. Safety monitoring is necessary to detect and manage clozapine's serious side effects.
The low risk of a serious adverse cardiac event should be outweighed by a reduction in suicide risk for most patients taking clozapine. We provide recommendations for assessing and monitoring cardiac status in patients prior to and after initiation of treatment with clozapine.
Clozapine use in patients with severe mental illness was associated with a significantly increased risk of death compared with that for the general population. Causation could not be established. Adverse effects and death are common causes of clozapine discontinuation.
Cash transfer and microfinance interventions can positively impact TB risk factors. Evaluation studies are urgently needed to assess the impact of these social protection interventions on actual TB indicators.
Our results suggest that identifying the prakriti may help in individualising therapy or predicting proneness to a disease.
This exploratory study suggests discrete causal pathways for RA etiology in prakriti based subgroups, thereby, validating concepts of prakriti and personalized medicine in Ayurveda. Ayurgenomics approach holds promise for biomarker discovery in complex diseases.
Evidence-based studies on the efficacy and safety of traditional Indian medicines are limited. The essential ingredient in most formulations is not precisely defined. High quality studies are necessary to evaluate and compare the value of traditional Indian drugs to modern medicine.
Both the incidence of a stroke, and the subsequent CF, were higher among RA patients compared with the general population. The results emphasize the necessity of optimising the prevention of stroke and follow-up care after a stroke in RA.
Given the number of herbal medicines promoted for RA, further research is needed to examine their efficacy, safety and potential drug interactions.
DAS and DAS28 remission results were similar for assessing achieving and sustaining remission in RA, frequently differing from patients classified as ACR70 responders. The three methods of examining duration of remission produced comparable results.
Higher doses of amino acid supplementation did not improve neonatal growth and were associated with increased blood amino acid and urea nitrogen levels.
In this study, formula for preterm infants with a P:E ratio of 3.2 g/100 kcal vs. 2.6 g/100 kcal provided no apparent benefit in terms of the proportion of fat to lean tissue accretion as determined from nutrient balance data.
These findings suggest that the preterm period is not a critical window for nutritional programming of growth, which contrasts with evidence from these trials showing that early diet influences later neurodevelopment.
The study failed to find the hypothesized 20% advantage of the new HLF. The observed advantage of human milk supports the hypothesis that it should be the first diet in ELBW infants; however, this hypothesis still must be confirmed in a controlled, randomized trial.
This study suggests that experimental EH and PH are at least nutritionally equivalent to SFs.
DXM was effective for the management of severe arterial hypotension in preterm infants not responding to standardized treatment.
Antenatal exposure to betamethasone but not dexamethasone is associated with a decreased risk of cystic periventricular leukomalacia among very premature infants.
Given that as many as one-quarter of treatments prescribed for this easily treatable condition are inappropriate, continued education of medical practitioners concerning appropriate treatment options is needed.
US guidance did not facilitate faster cannulation of the radial artery in children in our study.
Even considering the nature of a retrospective study design, we conclude that the brachial artery could be considered for cannulation in neonates and small children.
The use of real-time two-dimensional ultrasound guidance for radial artery catheterization improved first-pass success rate.
US-guided radial arterial cannulation in infants and small children provided a greater chance for success at the first attempt compared with the Doppler-assisted technique.
CAP in children causes a significant burden on both patients and their families, including substantial expenses, loss of routine, and decrease in quality of life.
Adenotonsillectomy is an effective treatment strategy for children with PFAPA syndrome.
PFAPA usually resolves without any long-term adverse effect, and as such, there is no role for tonsillectomy in these patients.
Retention of skills after NRP training is poor. The infrequent use of the cognitive aid may be the reason that it did not improve performance. Further research is required to investigate whether cognitive aids can be useful if their use is incorporated into the NRP training.
In situ simulation training with multidisciplinary teams can effectively improve technical skills and teamwork in neonatal resuscitation.
ENC training for midwives reduced 7-day neonatal mortality rates in low-risk clinics. Additional in-depth basic training in neonatal resuscitation may reduce mortality rates further.
ENC training decreases early neonatal mortality, and the impact is larger in infants of mothers without secondary education. The impact of ENC may be optimized by training health care workers who treat women with less formal education.
After NRP courses, the number of patients with perinatal asphyxia and with no resuscitation and also the duration of hospitalization decreased significantly, whereas the first minute Apgar scores increased significantly.
Due to worsening of test findings at 6 months after NRP, and deterioration of performance of intubation 1 year after NRP, it is suggested that a refresher course may be required every year.
HBB training reduced SB without increasing NMR, indicating that resuscitated infants survived the neonatal period. Monitoring and community-based assessment are recommended.
The knowledge gained by pediatric residents participating in the NRP course was very high, but was only partially retained over time. In particular, it was different among the four steps of neonatal resuscitation suggesting further studies on teaching resuscitation.
The trend of the knowledge attainment of both Sudanese and Italian pediatric residents was similar after NRP course participation. An NRP is effective in teaching neonatal resuscitation in developing countries.
Whole-body hypothermia reduces the risk of death or disability in infants with moderate or severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.
Compared with expectant management, intubation and suctioning of the apparently vigorous meconium-stained infant does not result in a decreased incidence of MAS or other respiratory disorders. Complications of intubation are infrequent and short-lived.
The use of this in-line filter leads to a significant decrease in major complications and substantial cost savings.
BID doses of SFC hydrofluoroalkane 50/100 pg, 50/250 pg, and 50/500 pg administered via MDI for 52 weeks were well tolerated in this population of adolescents and adults with persistent asthma.
In subjects who adjusted their inhaled steroid treatment according to guidelines the addition of salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily was associated with a reduction in inhaled steroid use and improved lung function and symptom control.
Clinicians should be more careful when stepping down budesonide/formoterol based solely on patients' symptoms and/or pulmonary function.
Many patients prescribed high-dose combination therapy may be over-treated. Substantial reductions in dose can be achieved with a clinical algorithm, reaching lower FP doses with SFC than FP without losing asthma control or increasing disease activity.
Evidence suggests that discontinuing LABA therapy in adults and older children with asthma controlled with a combination of ICSs and LABAs results in increased asthma-associated impairment. Additional trials measuring all long-term patient-important outcomes are needed.
The excess of serious asthma-related events attributable to LABAs was greatest among children. Additional data are needed to assess risks of LABA use for children with simultaneous ICS use.
Compared with low doses, moderate doses of ICSs may not provide clinically relevant therapeutic advantage in children with mild-to-moderate persistent asthma. Additional RCTs are needed to clarify the dose-response relationship of ICSs in persistent childhood asthma.
Bispectral index scoring should prove a useful adjunct to the present monitoring and can be used to achieve smoother emergence conditions. We suggest that LMA removal should be attempted in children when a BIS value of approximately 60 is reached.
The precision and accuracy of clinical and radiological signs of a PDA with left-to-right shunting are unsatisfactory. Therefore, Doppler flow echocardiography is required to diagnose PDA confidently in preterm infants between days 3 and 7 of life.
Low early postnatal blood flow to the upper body and brain may be one factor in the causal pathway of impaired preterm neurodevelopmental outcome.
Normal blood pressure cannot necessarily be equated with normal systemic now. These data emphasize the importance of other influences, and in particular that of varying systemic vascular resistance, in the determination of blood pressure in preterm infants.
Pulmonary hemorrhage in preterm babies is associated with significant ductal shunting and high estimated pulmonary blood flow.
21% of our VLBW infants had low SVC flow in the first 24 h, and this was associated with early neonatal death and/or severe IVH.
Indomethacin had minimal effect on ductal constriction and blood flow at one hour compared with placebo. Failure of ductal constriction is associated with low SVC flow and subsequent late severe P/IVH.
Early low superior vena cava flow was associated with substantial rates of death, morbidity, and developmental impairments. No difference was found in combined rates of death and disability for infants assigned randomly to dopamine or dobutamine.
The therapeutic combination of GCS and IPC was more effective than GCS alone for thrombosis prevention in high-risk patients undergoing gynaecological pelvic surgery, and there were no adverse effects in either group.
Asymptomatic deep vein thrombosis (DVT) was detected at day 10 in 15.9% of patients wearing elastic stockings alone. Intermittent pneumatic compression significantly decreased the occurrence of asymptomatic DVT for patients with intracerebral hemorrhage.
Low dose heparin treatment after 48 hours of stroke in ICH patients is not associated with an increased hematoma growth and should be used for DVT and PE prophylaxis.
Based on these findings, darexaban is expected to be effective for the prevention of VTE in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. (
Venowave devices are effective in preventing VTE in high-risk neurosurgical patients.
With the limitation of a low statistical power, our results do not support the superiority of the combination of IPC + GCS compared to GCS alone to prevent VTE in ICU patients at high risk of bleeding.
Both conventional bandage device and specific radial device are feasible and associated with low incidence of vascular complication. However, the specific radial device has significant advantage over bandage strategy in compression time and quality of life.
Among obese adolescent participants, use of gastric banding compared with lifestyle intervention resulted in a greater percentage achieving a loss of 50% of excess weight, corrected for age. There were associated benefits to health and quality of life.
BIB represents an efficacious long-term obesity treatment when supplemental strategies, as lifestyle modifications or pharmacotherapy, are established for weight maintenance after its removal.
Compared with non-surgical treatment of obesity, bariatric surgery leads to greater body weight loss and higher remission rates of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome. However, results are limited to two years of follow-up and based on a small number of studies and individuals.
Childhood overweight and obesity have increased dramatically since 1990. These findings confirm the need for effective interventions starting as early as infancy to reverse anticipated trends.
Overweight and, especially, obese children are at increased risk of subsequent physician diagnosed asthma in comparison to normal weight children. Except for sex, no studies reported any other potential effect modifiers. The observed sex effects were inconsistent.
A relatively large and fairly consistent body of evidence now demonstrates that overweight and obesity in childhood and adolescence have adverse consequences on premature mortality and physical morbidity in adulthood.
Financial relationships among industry, scientific investigators, and academic institutions are widespread. Conflicts of interest arising from these ties can influence biomedical research in important ways.
Physical activity levels are reduced after Fontan, independent of exercise capacity, and are associated with lower perceived general health but not other aspects of functional status.
The results obtained should not promote a non-operative method on the basis of lower risk, but do support an individual approach based on precise diagnosis and defined criteria.
Zinc supplementation substantially reduced the incidence of pneumonia in children who had received vitamin A.
Zinc supplementation has no effect on morbidity from falciparum malaria in children in rural west Africa, but it does reduce morbidity associated with diarrhoea.
The lower rates of child morbidity and mortality with zinc treatment represent substantial benefits from a simple and inexpensive intervention that can be incorporated in existing efforts to control diarrhoeal disease.
Zinc supplementation did not affect diarrhea duration or stool volume in young infants. Young infants tolerated both zinc doses. A beneficial effect on subsequent illness cannot be ruled out.
These data indicate that zinc supplementation improved cell-mediated immune response, whereas vitamin A had a deleterious effect in this older population. Further research is needed to clarify the clinical significance of these findings.
Zinc supplementation reduced the intensity of S. mansoni reinfections. Although the intensities of reinfection were very low, the finding probably reflects a biological effect of zinc that could be of public health importance in settings with higher transmission.
Low-dose supplementation of zinc and selenium provides significant improvement in elderly patients by increasing the humoral response after vaccination and could have considerable public health importance by reducing morbidity from respiratory tract infections.
Zinc supplementation at high levels results in increased hospitalizations for urinary complications compared to placebo. These data support the hypothesis that high dose zinc supplementation has a negative effect on select aspects of urinary physiology.
The results indicate that the bioavailability of zinc in the bread is satisfactory. The use of zinc-fortified bread was found to be an economical and readily accessible method to eliminate zinc deficiency and to prevent further occurrence.
One impact seen was that zinc supplementation improved LFS at 3 years after beginning treatment for patients with Stages III-IV disease. It is imperative that these patients be followed up for a longer period to draw a definite conclusion.
Vitamin A increases diarrheal disease and respiratory tract infections in young children in periurban areas of Mexico City. Vitamin A and zinc have more heterogeneous effects in different subgroups of children.
We conclude that zinc supplementation does not have an effect of public health importance on growth in West African populations of young children with a high prevalence of malnutrition. Multinutrient interventions are likely to be more effective.
The therapeutic use of zinc along with oral rehydration solution for community-based diarrhoea management may have a small positive benefit on the rates of growth among children younger than 3 years of age.
Zinc-deficient Bangladeshi infants showed improvements in growth rate and a reduced incidence of acute lower respiratory infection after zinc supplementation. In infants with serum zinc concentrations > 9.18 micro mol/L, supplementation improved only biochemical zinc status.
A heptavalent PNC vaccine proved to be safe and immunogenic in Bangladeshi infants. Zinc supplementation enhanced the immune response to only one of the serotypes (9V). However, there was no effect on other serotypes.
Combined zinc and vitamin A synergistically reduced the prevalence of persistent diarrhoea and dysentery. Zinc was associated with a significant increase in acute lower respiratory infection, but this adverse effect was reduced by the interaction between zinc and vitamin A.
Zinc supplementation is a simple, acceptable, and affordable strategy which should be considered in the management of acute diarrhoea and in prevention of growth faltering in children specially those who are malnourished.
The large impact of zinc supplementation on diarrhea incidence suggests that young, rural Guatemalan children may be zinc deficient and that zinc supplementation may be an effective intervention to improve their health and growth.
Zinc supplementation in small for gestational age infants can result in a substantial reduction in infectious disease mortality.
Interstitial lactic acidosis in the donor allograft is associated with significant reperfusion injury on implantation.
The study showed that zinc supplementation had a beneficial impact on the incidence of diarrhea and also weight gain among LBW infants.
Prepubertal children with SCD-SS may have zinc deficiency and may benefit from zinc supplementation to improve linear growth and weight gain.
Interradicular miniscrews predictably induced total arch distalization, leading to the correction of Class II. Additional miniscrews in the premolar area appear to facilitate intrusion and distalization of the entire arch according to the position of the force vectors.
Midpalatal implants are an acceptable technique for reinforcing anchorage in orthodontic patients.
Midpalatal implants are an acceptable technique for reinforcing anchorage in orthodontic patients and a good alternative for patients who do not wish to wear headgear.
If maximum anchorage is required, the Orthosystem implant is the system of choice.
Both J-hook and micro-implant could provide adequate anchorage in the treatment of patients with bimaxillary protrusion.
The maxillary incisors were effectively intruded by using miniscrews as orthodontic anchorage without patient cooperation. The amount of root resorption was not affected by activating the ligature wire from the miniscrew during incisor intrusion.
The data support the concept of immediate indirect loading on palatal implants with forces of up to 3 N. On histological evaluation, immediate loading yielded similar BIC rates as conventional loading.
The two treatment protocols provided adequate dental compensation for the Class II malocclusion, but did not correct the skeletal discrepancy. There were significant differences in the dental and soft tissue treatment effects between the two treatment protocols.
The present results confirm the effectiveness of orthodontic micro-implants used as anchorage elements.
Treatment with ASA was shown to provide relief from sore throat pain, headache, and muscle aches and pains associated with URTI.
Oral administration of zinc salts efficiently decreased serum bilirubin levels in hyperbilirubinemic rats, presumably as a result of inhibition of enterohepatic circulation of bilirubin. This approach might be useful in the treatment of severe unconjugated hyperbilirubinemias.
SPT is associated with GOR, distressed behaviour, and lower oxygen saturation.
SPT, but not MPT, was associated with a significant increase in gastro-oesophageal reflux in infants with cystic fibrosis.
Upright PEP physiotherapy may be more appropriate than PD in selected patients with CF and symptomatic GOR. The role of GOR as a cofactor in the progression of pulmonary disease in CF needs further evaluation.
The improvement in ease of expectoration following exercise may have been due to the higher ventilation and respiratory flow. The reductions in sputum mechanical impedance with treadmill exercise may have been due to the trunk oscillations associated with walking.
About one in five newly diagnosed infants with cystic fibrosis had pathological GOR. Pathologically increased reflux was present before radiological lung disease was established. Apart from frequent vomiting, no useful clinical predictors of pathological reflux were found.
Our observations support routine screening with transferrin saturation for white men > or = 30 years of age.
For medical patients requiring >48 hrs of mechanical ventilation, sedation with propofol results in significantly fewer ventilator days compared with intermittent lorazepam when sedatives are interrupted daily.
A once-daily trial of spontaneous breathing led to extubation about three times more quickly than intermittent mandatory ventilation and about twice as quickly as pressure-support ventilation. Multiple daily trials of spontaneous breathing were equally successful.
Center incidences of invasive candidiasis differ substantially, and antibiotic practice differences are possible contributors to center variation in candidiasis risk.
The introduction of a prophylactic nystatin administration policy for babies born before 33 weeks was associated with a significant reduction in fungal colonisation and invasive fungal infection.
The incidence of neonatal fungal infection was low in Australia and New Zealand, even without antifungal prophylaxis. Antifungal prophylaxis with oral nystatin was associated with a significantly lower incidence of fungal infection compared with no prophylaxis.
LOS occurred in 30% of Israeli VLBW infants. Six strong independent predictors for LOS were identified. Recognition and awareness of the epidemiologic, clinical, and microbiologic characteristics of LOS remain the keystones for management of this nosocomial infection.
The authors found no significant difference in the safety profile and the proportion of successful PS between midazolam and propofol for adults in the ED.
Lithium was 22% more effective than ketoconazole in giving complete remission of seborrhoeic dermatitis, with comparable safety.
It appears that pimecrolimus, a nonsteroidal topical treatment, may be an excellent alternative therapeutic modality for treating seborrhoeic dermatitis.
Topical pimecrolimus cream may be an excellent alternative therapeutic modality for treating seborrheic dermatitis in African Americans, particularly in those with associated hypopigmentation.
Findings are discussed in terms of the recent emphasis on two-generational programs directed to providing health, welfare, and child care services to young children and their families.
Early education reduces health behavioral risk factors by enhancing educational attainment, health insurance coverage, income, and family environments. Further follow-up will be needed to determine the long-term health effects of PPP.
Amlodipine effectively lowers systolic BP in a dose-dependent manner in hypertensive children who require drug treatment.
Valsartan and enalapril provided comparable BP reductions and effective BP control and were well tolerated in hypertensive children aged 6-17 years.
Lisinopril, once daily, is an effective and well-tolerated antihypertensive in children aged 6 to 16 years. An initial dose of 0.07 mg/kg, administered once daily, effectively lowered BP within 2 weeks. Blood pressure was reduced in a dose-dependent fashion.
Losartan significantly lowered proteinuria and was well tolerated after 12 weeks in children aged 1 to 17 years with proteinuria with or without hypertension, a population that has not previously been rigorously studied.
Telmisartan may be an appropriate therapy for treatment of pediatric hypertension, although more extensive studies are required in patients younger than age 12.
The DASH intervention proved more effective than RC in improving SBP and diet quality in adolescents with elevated BP.
These findings raise the possibility that carotid duplex ultrasound, by indicating the presence of early arterial wall changes, may be useful for predicting other cardiovascular sequelae in hypertensive children.
We integrated environmental hazard mitigation into inpatient care. Community-engaged care delivery that reduces risks for poor asthma outcomes can be initiated within the hospital.
Findings support the beneficial effect of LEED Platinum-certified buildings on respiratory health. Trends may be clinically and economically relevant. Advocacy efforts should promote the expansion of green housing and emphasize the development of healthy communities.
Medical-legal collaboration is highly effective in improving the control of inner-city asthmatics by effecting improvements in the domestic environment.
Valacyclovir therapy caused a reduction of EBV excretion and possibly produced a clinical benefit in infectious mononucleosis. Because our study was small and not placebo-controlled, these results must be confirmed by a larger, placebo-controlled trial.
Kissing was a significant risk for primary EBV infection. A total of 89% of infections were symptomatic, and blood viral load and CD8(+) lymphocytosis correlated with disease severity.
Levels of specific plasma EBV miRNAs were elevated differentially in patients with CAEBV infection. Several EBV miRNAs, particularly miR-BART2-5p, 13, and 15, are potentially biomarkers of disease severity or prognosis.
Monetary incentives dramatically increase the return rate for TB skin test reading among drug users who are at high risk of TB infection.
Nonmonetary and monetary incentives dramatically increased the return rate for TB skin test reading among drug users who are at high risk of TB infection. Nonmonetary incentives were somewhat less effective than monetary incentives.
Monetary incentives were clearly superior to active outreach. Active outreach in combination with monetary incentives did not increase adherence over incentives alone.
Health education and incentives are helpful adjuncts to the completion of treatment for latent tuberculosis infection in adolescents.
A $5 biweekly cash incentive improved adherence to tuberculosis preventive therapy compared with a peer intervention or usual care. Living in a hotel or apartment at the start of treatment also predicted the completion of therapy.
The results indicate that the distribution of food baskets can be a useful strategy to improve compliance with TB treatment at primary health care clinics.
In a high-risk population, adherence with TB test reading is poor. However, education and return of school forms at reading time can significantly improve adherence. Although requiring larger investment in resources, visiting nurses may also aid in test reading.
Measurement of early postoperative levels of TnI may aid in the early identification of children who will develop LCOS.
More than half of the deaths were due to low cardiac output, but not exclusively ventricular failure.
LEVO improved cardiac output in 50% of the interventions with post-surgical LCOS and no adverse effect was observed.
Our results confirm that the development of IVH is associated with early sepsis and failure to give antenatal steroid treatment. We propose that fertility treatment (and especially IVF) may be a new risk factor, and more research is needed to assess its role.
Endotracheal tube intraluminal volume loss is common among patients with acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation and increases with prolonged tracheal intubation.
Renal anaemia of stable haemodialysis patients can be treated with darbepoetin alfa more effectively by the i.v. as compared with the s.c. route.
The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles and safety data for darbepoetin alfa demonstrate that it can be administered less frequently than epoetin in patients with chronic kidney disease receiving hemodialysis, thus simplifying anemia management.
Subcutaneous C.E.R.A. once every 2 wk corrects anemia in ESA-naïve patients who are not on dialysis.
Our data suggest that the darbepoetin alfa dose can be kept constant if patients are switched from subcutaneous to intravenous treatment.
This study further supports s.c. and i.v. dosing equality and that overall the more convenient i.v. route can be used with equal dosing efficiency. However, patients switching routes of administration should be monitored due to the wide range in individual response.
This study has shown equivalent efficacy on Hb stability without the need for dosage increase in patients switched directly from subcutaneous rHuEPO to intravenous darbepoetin.
These results demonstrate that NESP safely and effectively corrects and maintains hemoglobin concentrations at a reduced dosing frequency relative to rHuEPO in patients with CRI, providing a potential benefit to patients and health care providers.
This study did not show therapeutic equivalence of once-weekly i.v. epoetin alfa with conventional dosing regimens.
Stable Hb levels were successfully maintained in patients on haemodialysis directly converted to Q2W intravenous C.E.R.A. from DA.
Darbepoetin alfa maintains hemoglobin as effectively as rHuEPO, but with a reduced dose frequency.
Eprex and PDpoietin could equally increase the hemoglobin levels with no significant complication. Therefore, PD can be used for treatment of anemia in patients on dialysis, and the patients will have the advantages of its availability and low price.
The 2 erythropoiesis-stimulating agents epoetin alfa and darbepoetin alfa, when given to patients with CKD in doses aimed at standard anemia correction are associated with a similar degree of LVMI reduction, in the absence of a concomitant enhancement of CKD progression.
Darbepoetin alfa is safe and effective for the treatment of anaemia in dialysis patients. The optimal weekly starting dose is 0.45-0.75 microg/kg and once weekly dosing is possible for both the s.c. and i.v. routes of administration.
Q2W darbepoetin alfa is effective in maintaining Hb levels in dialysis patients switched from weekly rHuEPO, regardless of the route of administration and with no notable increase in the weekly equivalent dose.
In patients with chronic kidney disease, early complete correction of anemia does not reduce the risk of cardiovascular events. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Higher Hgb levels are associated with improved QofL domains of the KDQofL questionnaire. These findings have implications for the care of CKD patients in terms of the initiation of and the Hgb target of ESA therapy.
Repeated four-monthly anthelminthic treatments for 14 months resulted in a significantly lower increase in the prevalence of Plasmodium infection in preschool children which coincided with a reduction in both the prevalence and intensity of A. lumbricoides infections.
For adult patients with atopic dermatitis it was shown that 1 year of house dust mite avoidance reduced the allergen exposure, but an improvement of overall disease activity was not demonstrated.
Simple mite allergen avoidance measures should be recommended to families with children affected by extrinsic AD in order to control the clinical manifestations and prevent mite sensitization.
Annual costs of AD/E are similar to those of other diseases such as emphysema, psoriasis, and epilepsy. Patients incur significant costs associated with AD/E and co-morbid conditions.
The prevalence and incidence of AD are high among young children. In general, the health-care costs for AD were low. Patients' out-of-pocket costs were relatively high.
Our results indicate that striae distensae are a common skin condition that occurs early in puberty regardless of gender, and that they have a different anatomical distribution and relationship with body measurements in each gender.
Short course of antibiotic therapy (10 days) is effective, with potential benefits of shorter hospital stay.
A psychometric measure of unplanned pregnancy, the development of which was informed by lay views, is now available. The measure is suitable for use with any pregnancy regardless of outcome (that is, birth, abortion, miscarriage) and is highly acceptable to women.
As described by key informants, the family planning services available to teenagers in the Netherlands and Sweden have many of the features identified by respondents from all four countries as those that would characterize ideal family planning services for adolescents.
In a study of mothers 13 to 24 years old who had the characteristics of most white, middle-class Americans, a younger age conferred an increased risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes that was independent of important confounding sociodemographic factors.
Our results suggest that there may be a biological effect of very young maternal age, affecting foremost very preterm birth.
The present study found preliminary support for the augmentation of exposure therapy with DCS, specifically for patients with more severe PTSD needing longer treatment.
D-Cycloserine did not augment a full course of comprehensive CBT for social anxiety disorder.
The efficacy of DCS for augmenting exposure-based CBT depends on the success of exposure sessions. These findings may help guide the development of an algorithm for the effective use of DCS for augmenting exposure-based CBT.
D-cycloserine augmentation has the potential to increase the efficiency, palatability, and overall effectiveness of standard exposure therapy for OCD.
These findings do not support the application of post-session DCS administration for augmenting the efficacy of exposure-based treatments. Possible reasons for these findings are discussed.
Combining imipramine and CBT appeared to confer limited advantage acutely but more substantial advantage by the end of maintenance. Each treatment worked well immediately following treatment and during maintenance; CBT appeared durable in follow-up. JAMA. 2000;283:2529-2536
Either combined therapy or psychotherapy alone may be chosen as first-line treatment for panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, depending on the patient's preferences.
About half of Americans will meet the criteria for a DSM-IV disorder sometime in their life, with first onset usually in childhood or adolescence. Interventions aimed at prevention or early treatment need to focus on youth.
DCS facilitates extinction of learned fear to the extinguished CS, but also appears to reduce fear of a nonextinguished CS. These findings suggest that this drug may have substantial clinical value in the treatment of anxiety disorders.
It is expected that a more thorough understanding of the impact on quality of life will lead to increased public awareness of anxiety disorders as serious mental disorders worthy of further investment in research, prevention, and treatment.
The efficacy of subcutaneous rehydration in elderly hospitalized patients with mild-moderate dehydration is not inferior to that obtained intravenously, and may even have additional advantages.
The data on BP in the children are in agreement with previous studies and argue strongly for additional research into the effects of prenatal calcium supplementation on BP regulation in the offspring.
Calcium supplementation during pregnancy did not prevent preeclampsia, pregnancy-associated hypertension, or adverse perinatal outcomes in healthy nulliparous women.
Calcium and CLA supplementation during pregnancy reduces the incidence of PIH, and decreases the intracellular concentration of ionized free calcium in peripheral blood lymphocytes.
An effect of calcium supplementation in the second half of pregnancy on the rate of abnormal laboratory measures associated with preeclampsia was not demonstrated.
The authors conclude that calcium linoleic acid and mono and polyunsaturated fatty acid supplements are useful and effective in the prevention of gestational hypertension in women at risk for this pathology.
This experiment supports previous studies in humans suggesting a link between calcium intake during pregnancy and blood pressure in the offspring, and provides an animal model to explore the mechanisms involved in such association.
This study shows an increased risk of developing preeclampsia associated with lower milk intake.
Calcium supplementation appears to reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia and to reduce the rare occurrence of the composite outcome 'maternal death or serious morbidity'. There were no other clear benefits or harms.
With the increasing survival rate among babies born before 29 weeks of gestation, we need urgently to establish reliable ways of monitoring the proportion of survivors who have a disability.
Single urine calcium to creatinine ratio may be an effective method for screening women at greatest risk for pre-eclampsia.
Hypocalciuria could be considered as a risk factor for the development of preeclampsia and transitory hypertension during pregnancy.
Results showed a marginal but significant difference between Gaviscon Infant and placebo in average reflux height, and raises questions regarding any perceived clinical benefit of its use.
In neonates, preterm infants, and infants aged 1 through 11 months, pantoprazole (high dose) improved pH-metry parameters after ≥5 consecutive daily doses, and was generally well tolerated for ≤6 weeks.
Baclofen reduces GER in children by inhibiting the triggering of TLESR. Baclofen also accelerates GE.
Oral treatment with esomeprazole 0.25 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg was well tolerated and provided dose-related acid suppression, dose-related exposure to esomeprazole, and decreased esophageal acid exposure in infants 1-24 months old with GERD.
This study detected no difference in efficacy between lansoprazole and placebo for symptoms attributed to GERD in infants age 1 to 12 months. SAEs, particularly lower respiratory tract infections, occurred more frequently with lansoprazole than with placebo.
Our results show that nizatidine is effective in treating children with reflux esophagitis. The children included in this study did not have severe esophagitis, and the conclusion must be limited to those with mild to moderate degrees of disease.
Pantoprazole (20 and 40 mg) is effective in reducing endoscopically proven GERD symptoms in children. Both 20 and 40 mg pantoprazole significantly reduced symptoms as early as 1 week.
Esomeprazole (0.2-1.0 mg/kg) effectively heals macroscopic and microscopic erosive esophagitis in this pediatric population with gastroesophageal reflux disease. Dilation of intercellular space may be an important histologic marker of erosive esophagitis in children.
The biodisposition of nizatidine in children and adults is similar; however, response after a comparable weight-based dose is equal and potentially greater in children.
Cisapride was no better than placebo for relief of symptoms in children with uncomplicated gastroesophageal reflux. A beneficial effect was demonstrated in the cisapride group in relation to the measured parameters for esophageal acid exposure time.
Infants with congenital heart disease are at significant risk of both silent and clinically identified thrombosis. There seems to be no advantage in using heparin-bonded catheters in infants </=1 year of age.
In critically ill patients the use of trilumen central venous catheters coated with chlorhexidine and silver sulfadiazine reduced the risk of catheter colonization due to prevention of gram-positive cocci and Candida spp.
Catheter-related thrombosis is common after placement of femoral venous catheters in children. Low dose intracatheter NTG infusion does not protect against catheter-related venous thrombosis in children.
The modest additional cost for the use of these catheters relative to the considerable cost of treating even a single bloodstream infection makes their use cost-effective.
Local anticoagulation of intermittently used central venous catheters prolongs catheter patency. High-dose (5000 IU/ml) heparin solution is a useful anticoagulant for this purpose, while vitamin C solution does not prolong catheter patency.
Catheter-related central vein thrombosis is a frequent complication of central venous catheterization in ICU patients and is closely associated with catheter-related sepsis.
Continuous 24 h acustimulation decreases PONV, particularly in patients at high risk.
We conclude that the capsicum plaster at the P6 and K-D2 acupoint was a promising antiemetic method for the patients undergoing thyroid surgery.
The incidence of PONV after breast surgery seems to be influenced by some psychological mechanisms. In this group of patients, acupuncture might be more effective in patients who have low PBS.
Acupressure at the P6 meridian point is an effective alternative for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in patients receiving patient-controlled analgesia with morphine after gynaecological surgery.
TEAS at the P6 meridian points is an effective adjunct to standard antiemetic drug therapy for prevention of nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing supratentorial craniotomy.
The inclusion of future costs can significantly improve the cost-effectiveness of interventions that decrease mortality among young adults. The common practice of excluding future costs may bias cost-effectiveness analyses against such interventions.
Despite relatively high rates of severe hypoglycemia, cognitive function did not decline over an extended period of time in the youngest cohort of patients with type 1 diabetes.
Intensive diabetes therapy has long-term beneficial effects on the risk of cardiovascular disease in patients with type 1 diabetes.
Compared with conventional therapy, intensive diabetes management is associated with lower RHR in type 1 diabetes. The lower RHR with intensive therapy may explain, in part, its effect in reducing cardiovascular disease, recently demonstrated in type 1 diabetes.
The changes in lipid levels and blood pressure that occur with excessive weight gain with intensive therapy are similar to those seen in the insulin resistance syndrome and may increase the risk of coronary artery disease in this subset of subjects with time.
Intensive therapy was implemented successfully in the DCCT. The detailed description herein will serve to facilitate translation of the DCCT results to the clinical setting.
The results of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial strongly support the recommendation that most patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus use intensive treatment, aiming for levels of glycemia as close to the nondiabetic range as is safely possible.
Intensive therapy for type 1 diabetes produces substantial excess weight gain compared with conventional therapy. However, the additional weight appears to include lean tissue as well as fat.
Timely institution of intensive therapy is associated with rates of spontaneous abortion and congenital malformation similar to those in the nondiabetic population.
DCCT intensive therapy is more expensive than conventional therapy, but it offers the hope of cost savings as a result of averted complications.
Intensive therapy effectively delays the onset and slows the progression of diabetic retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy in patients with IDDM.
Hyperglycemia is a risk factor for incident hypertension in type 1 diabetes, and intensive insulin therapy reduces the long-term risk of developing hypertension.
It seems that good metabolic control and not conventional risk factors is of major importance for diabetic patients sustaining acute myocardial infarction. Also treatment with beta-blockade seems to be of special importance in this category of patients.
Long-term intensified insulin treatment, as compared with standard treatment, retards the development of microvascular complications in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
These data demonstrate dramatic weight gain in T1DM and underscore the complexity of weight change in this disease.
Lipid reduction may preserve glomerular filtration rate and may decrease proteinuria in patients with renal disease.
State anxiety symptoms are associated with less frequent BGM and suboptimal glycemic control in adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
These data suggest relatively high 14-year rates of progression of retinopathy and incidence of macular edema. These data also suggest that a reduction of hyperglycemia and hypertension may result in a beneficial decrease in the progression to proliferative retinopathy.
The present study shows that mean HbA(1c) is a strong predictor of nerve function. Mean HbA(1c) <8.4% over 18 years was associated with near-normal nerve function.
BGM is a mediator between depressive symptoms and glycemic control in adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
The switch from NPH to long-acting analogues as basal insulin replacement in type 1 diabetic patients had a small effect on HbA1c, and also reduced the risk of nocturnal and severe hypoglycaemia.
In the participating centers with a multidisciplinary team, only one third of the patients had an HbA1c level of < 8%.
These data suggest that although the standard CAD risk factors are still operative in type 1 diabetes, greater glycemia does not seem to predict future CAD events. In addition, depressive symptomatology predicts angina and insulin resistance (eGDR) predicts hard CAD end points.
Our data suggest that attempts to improve glycemic control reduce the incidence of macrovascular events both in type 1 and type 2 DM. In absolute terms, benefits are comparable, although effects on specific manifestations of macrovascular disease differ.
Individualized treatment plans for insulin initiation and administration mode are critical in achieving target glycaemic levels. Progress in these fields is expected to facilitate and improve the quality of life of diabetic patients.
Among older patients with type 2 diabetes, a history of severe hypoglycemic episodes was associated with a greater risk of dementia. Whether minor hypoglycemic episodes increase risk of dementia is unknown.
These findings support the effectiveness of the family psychoeducation group program in improving the psychosocial health and functioning of Chinese patients with schizophrenia and their families.
The findings provide evidence that the multidisciplinary schizophrenia care program can improve the psychosocial functioning of patients and their families and social support of caregivers.
The findings suggest that implementation of multiple-family group treatment in a capitated community mental health setting improves hospitalization outcomes without increasing the overall volume of outpatient mental health services.
Multiple-family group treatment reduced caregivers' distress but did not increase caregivers' resources relative to standard psychiatric care.
These results confirm that relatives of patients with schizophrenia should receive psychoeducational interventions, particularly in Italy where family involvement in schizophrenia care is particularly frequent.
This family psychoeducational treatment program modifies the negative attitudes of relatives towards schizophrenia. However, programs of this kind may not improve health problems; alternatively, their effects may only be seen in the long term.
The toolkit is a feasible and potentially effective intervention to improve outcomes for relatives. A larger trial is needed to reliably assess the clinical and cost-effectiveness of REACT, and its impact on longer-term outcomes.
The results suggest that a psychoeducational family intervention may have a significant impact on functional outcomes of schizophrenia when provided to patients and caregivers in real-world settings.
The change in practice to avoid hyperoxia is associated with a significant decrease in neonatal morbidity and does not have a detrimental effect on developmental outcomes at 18 months CA.
Preoperative Sco2 levels are reflective of the severity of cardiopulmonary dysfunction, associated with short- and long-term mortality and morbidity, and may add to preoperative risk stratification in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
This study supports the hypothesis that early provision of antihypotensive therapy is related to intraventricular hemorrhage, periventricular leukomalacia and major neurodevelopment impairment.
In ELBW infants (1) cerebral autoregulation is functional in normotensive but not hypotensive infants; (2) a breakpoint exists at approximately 30 mm Hg in the CBF-MAP autoregulation curve; and (3) dopamine improves both MAP and CBF.
The results demonstrate that despite a significant correlation, sensitivity of spatially resolved spectroscopy is poor, and it is questionable whether TOI can be used reliably to detect low SjO(2).
The results of this study support consideration of CPAP as an alternative to intubation and surfactant in preterm infants. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
rSo2 and FTOE seem to reflect secondary energy failure. aEEG showed the closest relationship with outcome after severe birth asphyxia.
Preterm infants with GMH-IVH had lower r(c)SO₂ and higher FTOE during the first 2 weeks after birth irrespective of the grade of GMH-IVH. This suggests that cerebral perfusion is decreased persistently for 2 weeks in infants with GMH-IVH, even in the presence of mild hemorrhages.
Cerebral oximetry monitors an arterial/venous ratio of 16:84, similar in normoxia, hypoxia, and hypocapnia. Because of biologic variation in cerebral arterial/venous ratios, use of a fixed ratio is not a good method to validate the technology.
Severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease increases the slow-twitch characteristics of the muscle fibers in the diaphragm, an adaptation that increases resistance to fatigue.
Our results suggest that aerobic training can play an important role in the clinical management of patients with persistent asthma. Further, they may be especially useful for patients with higher degrees of psychosocial distress.
Intrathecal baclofen provides effective long-term treatment of spasticity of cerebral origin and its effects do not appear to diminish with time. This therapy is frequently associated with adverse side effects that usually can be alleviated by adjustments in dosage.
Tests of ITB using a continuous infusion by an external pump allowed precise evaluation of the effects of different ITB doses on walking ability, enabling prediction of how the patient would respond to an internal pump. All patients showed ambulatory improvement with ITB.
Decreasing the concentration of ITB seems to affect spasticity control. Further research in this area is needed for those patients with refractory spasticity to optimize efficacy of ITB therapy.
Implantation of an ITB catheter via a cervical approach is safe and feasible and should be considered in children with severe corrected or uncorrected scoliosis, and thus avoiding the lumbar spinal sac.
The PEDI has had a rich tradition in helping to document functional development. New methods are proposed for the next generation of the PEDI by using item banks and computer adaptive testing.
Cetirizine 10 mg once daily was equivalent to hydroxyzine 25 mg tid in controlling the symptoms of patients with chronic urticaria, as assessed by patient and investigator evaluations.
Improvements in MTSS, MNW, size of wheals, intensity of erythema, and differential eosinophil count imply that rupatadine is a particularly attractive therapeutic modality compared with cetirizine for the treatment of CsU.
Fexofenadine HCl is well tolerated and is statistically superior to placebo in reducing signs and symptoms of CIU and in ameliorating interference with sleep and daily activities due to urticaria. Doses of 60 mg twice a day or greater are most effective.
A once-daily dose of fexofenadine hydrochloride, 180 mg, offered effective, well-tolerated relief for the management of CIU.
Fexofenadine HCl significantly reduced pruritus severity, number of wheals, and interference with sleep and normal daily activities in patients with chronic urticaria compared with placebo. Twice-daily doses of 60 mg or greater were most effective.
Desloratadine 5 mg/day was associated with significant improvements in two separate dermatology-specific measures of QoL in patients with CIU. QoL proved to be a relevant primary outcome measure for therapeutic trials in CIU.
Desloratadine 5 mg daily is a safe and effective treatment for CIU with significant benefits within 24 h and maintained through the treatment period.
There were subgenotypes in 3 genotypes of HGV; The predominant genotypes of HGV were genotype Asia and genotype HGV among IVDAs, PLDs, and BDs patients in Guangxi, China.
Omalizumab diminished clinical symptoms and signs of chronic idiopathic urticaria in patients who had remained symptomatic despite the use of approved doses of H-antihistamines. (Funded by Genentech and Novartis Pharma; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
All the alternatives are viable, considering they are adjusted to each patient, adverse symptoms, socio-economic status and clinical severity.
Determination of urinary IL-6 level is useful in studying the severity of immune inflammation of CRF. RP improves renal function by inhibiting the production of IL-6 and lowering immune inflammation.
These findings support the hypothesis of right-sided anterior cortical activation during anxiety and indicate that the combination of EEG and heart rate changes during anticipation account for substantial variance in reported negative affect.
Though associated with less severe impairment than PD in some domains, PAs are associated with mental health problems and reduced overall psychological and physical functioning and may be an indicator of more severe psychopathology.
Five biofeedback sessions are more effective than continuous polyethylene glycol for treating PFD, and benefits last at least 2 years. Biofeedback should become the treatment of choice for this common and easily diagnosed type of constipation.
Biofeedback training has a limited therapeutic effect on patients suffering from anismus. BTX-A injection seems to be successful for temporary treatment of anismus.
Our results suggest that biofeedback, using either manometry or EMG, is effective in improving symptoms and anorectal function caused by paradoxical puborectalis contraction.
While our sample was statistically underpowered, AB produced clinical improvements in constipation severity and QOL.
This investigation provides definitive support for the efficacy of biofeedback for pelvic floor dyssynergia and shows that instrumented biofeedback is essential to successful treatment.
Biofeedback therapy provided sustained improvement of bowel symptoms and anorectal function in constipated subjects with dyssynergic defecation, whereas standard therapy was largely ineffective.
In our experience, patients with pelvic floor dyssynergia are likely to have continued benefit from biofeedback training in the time course, whereas its effects on slow-transit constipation seems to be maximal in the short-term course.
Biofeedback is an effective treatment for pelvic floor dyssynergia but not slow transit constipation.
Satisfaction after biofeedback is high for patients referred for chronic constipation and diagnosed with pelvic floor dyssynergia. Biofeedback improves symptoms related to dyschezia and reduces use of aperients.
The evidence is insufficient to support the efficacy of biofeedback for these gastrointestinal conditions.
The PAC-SYM is internally consistent, reproducible under stable conditions, valid, and responsive to change and provides a comprehensive means to assess the effectiveness of treatment for constipation.
Constipation is common in the Canadian population and significantly impairs health-related quality of life. Poor quality of life is an important predictor of health care utilization in these subjects.
This study showed that a long anal canal and increased rectal maximum tolerable volume are associated with poor short-term response to biofeedback for patients with anismus with decreased bowel frequency and normal colonic transit time.
Patients identified by Rome III criteria for FC and IBS-C are not distinct groups. Revisions to the Rome III criteria, possibly including incorporation of physiological tests of transit and pelvic floor function, are needed.
The antiglutamate agent riluzole appears to slow the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and it may improve survival in patients with disease of bulbar onset.
AVP-923 palliates pseudobulbar affect in ALS. Overall benefits of treatment are reflected in fewer episodes of crying and laughing and improvements in overall quality of life and quality of relationships.
This pilot study suggests that IFNbeta-1a is not effective in the treatment of ALS.
This open-label extension study reinforces and extends the results of the preceding double-blind trials regarding the safety of riluzole and shows that the drug is well tolerated for long periods of up to almost 7 years.
Several features of the Clinical Trial of High Dose Coenzyme Q10 in ALS study design promote efficiency. These features may be beneficial in phase II trials in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other fields.
Insulin-like growth factor type I does not provide benefit for patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
Magnesium was not effective for the treatment of nocturnal leg cramps. The period-effect bias probably occurred because of a combination of the natural history of this condition, a regression to the mean, and a true placebo effect.
At a dose of 400mg orally three times a day, gabapentin may be of value in the treatment of the spasticity and painful muscle cramping experienced by patients with multiple sclerosis.
This tool can be used to critically appraise the medical literature, design NPT studies, and assess the quality of trial reports included in systematic reviews.
Piracetam is an effective prophylactic treatment for severe BHS.
Electrical stimulation can prevent shoulder subluxation, but this effect was not maintained after the withdrawal of treatment.
Utilization of acupuncture was somewhat lower than expected given its significant national and international recognition and its visibility in the media. This may in part be a function of provider availability and cultural factors.
The efficacy of pancreatic enzyme supplements for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency may be optimized by administration during or after meals.
Chronic supplementation with pancreatic extract is not beneficial in the management of recurrent pain in patients with chronic pancreatitis.
This randomized, placebo-controlled trial found that Creon 10 treatment controlled steatorrhea, as reflected in reduced fat excretion, decreased stool frequency and improved stool consistency. Creon 10 treatment was safe and well tolerated.
Individually-tailored enzyme replacement therapy improved the QoL, reduced the extents of steatorrhea and pain, increased the body weight, not only in the untreated chronic pancreatitis patients, but even in the inadequately treated group.
It was demonstrated that the oral pancreatic enzymes improved the gastric dysmotility, confirming the previous findings that suggested the depleted pancreatic enzyme output caused the dysmotility.
Prophylactic short-term administration of ulinastatin decreases the incidence of pancreatitis and hyperenzymemia after ERCP.
During strong acid inhibition, lower than recommended oral doses of pancreatic enzymes are therapeutically effective with respect to fat absorption and symptom reduction.
In our experience, relief of chronic pain regularly follows selective surgery tailored to the presumptive pain cause or occurs spontaneously in uncomplicated advanced CP.
Chronic pancreatitis due to hyperparathyroidism has important characteristics in its biochemical and clinical manifestations. Parathyroidectomy relieves pancreatic pain in majority of patients.
Patients with ASC present symptoms similar to those of adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Most patients had dismal prognosis despite aggressive surgery with or without adjuvant therapy.
In children with mild or moderate asthma, the addition of chiropractic spinal manipulation to usual medical care provided no benefit.
The frequency of use of unconventional therapy in the United States is far higher than previously reported. Medical doctors should ask about their patients' use of unconventional therapy whenever they obtain a medical history.
This trial demonstrated a significant rate of MHE reversal and excellent adherence in cirrhotics after probiotic yogurt supplementation with potential for long-term adherence.
Lactitol can decrease the levels of plasma endotoxin more effectively than standard medical treatment in patients with chronic viral hepatitis through improving intestinal microflora.
Infectious complications after elective LDLT significantly decreased with the perioperative administration of synbiotic therapy.
The results show that low doses of lactitol can beneficially affect the faecal flora without eliciting gross symptoms of intolerance and that lactitol can be classified as a prebiotic.
Composite probiotics containing Bifidobacterium bifidum BGN4, Lactobacillus acidophilus AD031, and other species are safe and effective, especially in patients who excrete normal or loose stools.
Results of the study suggest that manipulation of intestinal flora should be taken into consideration as possible adjunctive therapy in some types of chronic liver disease.
The use of perioperative probiotics reduced postoperative infectious complications after pancreaticoduodenectomy, making it a promising potential adjunct therapy for patients undergoing high-risk hepato, biliary, and pancreatic surgery.
Our data provide a proof-of-concept that probiotics restore neutrophil phagocytic capacity in cirrhosis, possibly by changing IL10 secretion and TLR4 expression, warranting larger randomised controlled and mechanistic studies.
LGG provided by the enteral route is able to downregulate LPS-induced proinflammatory mediators. This effect is not only present in the splanchnic organs, that is, the intestine and the liver, but extends to the plasma and a distal organ, the lung.
Patients with liver cirrhosis have an imbalance of intestinal bacteria flora. Probiotics effectively increased the Bifidobacterium count and reduced the level of fecal pH and fecal and blood ammonia.
LOLA benefited patients with overt hepatic encephalopathy (I or II), whereas these data do not support the use of LOLA for patients with subclinical hepatic encephalopathy.
The study shows that MT is effective to reduce BPSD in patients with moderate-severe dementia.
Group music with movement intervention can be beneficial in managing agitated behaviours of those with dementia and should be incorporated into care routines in residential facilities.
Music therapy is a safe and effective method for treating agitation and anxiety in moderately severe and severe AD. This is in line with the results of some non-controlled studies on music therapy in dementia.
During the intervention, live interactive music has immediate and positive engagement effects in dementia subjects with apathy, regardless of the severity of their dementia. Pre-recorded music is non-harmful but less clearly beneficial.
LCPUFA supplementation did not influence VEP acuity development in these well-nourished, formula-fed infants.
Dietary LCPUFA do not influence growth of healthy term infants to a clinically significant degree.
DHA supplementation of infant formula at 0.32% of total fatty acids improves visual acuity. Higher amounts of DHA supplementation were not associated with additional improvement of visual acuity. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
This study supports the view that LCPs from single-cell sources do not have detrimental effects on the growth, feeding and general health of infants.
Formula-fed infants, at low risk for allergy, respond differently to mitogen and food proteins ex vivo than those fed HM. Feeding LCP altered some of these differences in the direction that is hypothesized to confer immune benefits.
These statistically significant correlations suggest that the omega3 fatty acid status during early infancy may be important with respect to neurodevelopmental status at 1 year of age and highlight the need for further studies of this possibility.
Predominant breastfeeding for 6 months or longer was positively associated with academic achievement in children at 10 years of age. However, the effectiveness of breastfeeding differed according to gender; the benefits were only evident for boys.
The earlier elimination of bacilli from sputum was associated with improved zinc status and Th1 immune response. The therapeutic effect of vitamin A was less evident.
This study among severely malnourished TB patients, did not confirm that single or combined supplementation of zinc and vitamin A significantly reduced sputum conversion time or had other significant benefit.
A cholesterol-rich diet accelerated the sterilization rate of sputum cultures in pulmonary tuberculosis patients, suggesting that cholesterol should be used as a complementary measure in antitubercular treatment.
Micronutrient supplementation at the doses used in this study does not reduce mortality in HIV-positive adults with pulmonary TB in Malawi.
Micronutrient supplementation could improve the outcome in patients undergoing TB chemotherapy in Tanzania.
Scalp AP is a safe complementary modality when combined with LT and has a significantly positive effect on language development in children with autism.
A short intensive course of electroacupuncture might improve some core features of children with ASD.
Although the incidence of minor adverse events associated with acupuncture may be considerable, serious adverse events are rare. Those responsible for establishing competence in acupuncture should consider how to reduce these risks.
This study provides strong evidence against the hypothesis that MMR vaccination causes autism.
These findings provide no support for an MMR associated "new variant" form of autism with developmental regression and bowel problems, and further evidence against involvement of MMR vaccine in the initiation of autism.
Work schedules where intensivists received weekend breaks were better for the physicians and, despite lower continuity of intensivist care, did not worsen outcomes for medical ICU patients.
A cost-effective, 6-session RMM protocol reduces burnout and mood dimensions, as well as TMD, in long-term care workers.
The WHS mental module was well received and fitted in the occupational health service activities. Nevertheless, response and compliance should be improved.
Training communicative skills using group psychoeducation method can decrease the occupational stress of psychiatry ward nurses.
These results suggest that short-term exposure to qigong was effective in reducing stress in hospital staff. Further studies are needed to evaluate the possible effectiveness of qigong in reducing pain and in improving quality of life.
The burnout prevalence among pediatric residents was 66% and was higher among third-year residents. A brief intervention was not effective in reducing burnout prevalence, despite the achievement of an improvement in "depersonalization."
Burnout is a major problem in pediatric oncology staff. Mindfulness practices can be taught in the workplace and may be a useful component of a multidimensional strategy to reduce burnout in this population.
Findings suggest that long-term approaches yield permanent behavioral changes.
It is suggested that a 6-month participatory intervention is effective in improving psychosocial work environment, but not mental health, among Japanese nurses.
According to the results of the present study, holding stress management training program workshops in different courses of the mental health department can improve mental health of the students.
Data from this small pilot study supports educating nurses about Reiki practice to decrease work-related stress.
A short term counselling intervention could contribute to reduction in emotional exhaustion in doctors. This was associated with reduced working hours for the whole cohort and, in men, was predicted by satisfaction with the intervention.
A short-term preventive intervention could contribute to reduction of emotional exhaustion in nurses. Work-related conflict and sick leave after the intervention were negatively associated with this reduction.
The results provide robust evidence for the positive effects of CS on medical-surgical nurses' well-being at work.
This intervention was developed with reference to a design strategy, using input from the target population.
This brief intervention is feasible, is acceptable to staff, and may improve burnout and staff attitudes.
Individual interventions (like CBT) improve individuals' mental health. Physical activity as an organisational intervention reduces absenteeism. Research needs to target gaps in the evidence.
These data primarily represented self-selected white workers and may not apply to all employees. However, if high stress relates to absenteeism, these data may provide valuable information for program design in stress management.
Stress management interventions are effective. Cognitive-behavioral interventions are more effective than the other intervention types.
In contrast to their performance within social and interpersonal domains, children with autistic disorders showed no deficits in processing affect in musical stimuli.
Cesarean section is a modest risk factor for ectopic pregnancy and an important risk factor for placental problems.
Patients recovering from acute myocardial infarction may benefit from music therapy in a quiet, restful environment.
Neuronavigated rTMS offers new possibilities in the understanding and treatment of chronic tinnitus.
Pycnogenol taken at this early stage of retinopathy may enhance retinal blood circulation accompanied by regression of edema, which favorably improves vision of patients.
The TCHM concoction is efficacious in improving quality of life and reducing topical corticosteroid use in children with moderate-to-severe AD. The formulation was palatable and well tolerated.
The inhalation of 1% l-menthol did not enhance the tolerability of the FB. However, l-menthol induced a significant increase of the PEF immediately after inhalation. Finally sensation of dyspnea was decreased in both groups at the day post FB.
We found benefits of T(4) supplementation for children <29 weeks' gestation, and especially in children of 25/26 weeks' gestation. However, in children of 29 weeks' gestation T(4) supplementation is associated with more developmental problems.
In infants born before 30 weeks' gestation, thyroxine supplementation does not improve the developmental outcome at 24 months.
The prevalence of disabilities had not changed among EI or ES survivors with increasing survival. However, increasing survival of these infants has resulted in a steadily increasing prevalence of children with disabilities.
Severe hypothyroxinemia in preterm infants may be an important cause of problems in neurologic and mental development detected at the age of two years.
Severe transient hypothyroxinemia is common in very premature infants and deserves further study.
Taken together, these preliminary findings suggest that rTMS may be an effective and safe treatment alternative for patients with refractory depression and stroke.
The study suggests that therapeutic rTMS applications over the contralesional hemisphere are feasible in acute stroke patients and can transiently improve dexterity of the affected hand. RTMS may become an additional tool for early neurorehabilitation.
Although this study provided further evidence that even relatively brief sessions of CIT can have a substantial effect, it provided no support for adjuvant use of rTMS.
To our knowledge, this is the first controlled trial that demonstrates the efficacy of rTMS among geriatric patients with VD. Older age and smaller frontal gray matter volumes were associated with a poorer response to rTMS.
High-frequency rTMS of the affected motor cortex can facilitate practice-dependent plasticity and improve the motor learning performance in chronic stroke victims.
The new approach of repeating TBS at the same day may be promising for therapy of neglect.
TBS seems safe in chronic stroke patients. iTBS over the stroke hemisphere transiently improved motor behaviour and corticospinal output in the paretic hands.
A single session of high-frequency rTMS to the motor cortex was safe. These results require verification with addition of a placebo group and thus blinded assessments across a wide spectrum of poststroke deficits and with larger doses of 20 Hz rTMS.
In a 24 week study of adult Chinese women with mild to moderate SLE, treatment with DHEA 200 mg once daily resulted in significant reduction of serum levels of IL10. This finding may suggest why DHEA could significantly reduce lupus flares.
Patients with quiescent systemic lupus erythematosus who are taking hydroxychloroquine are less likely to have a clinical flare-up if they are maintained on the drug.
Research data in the elderly, on both hormonal and immunologic effects, suggest that DHEA may become an adjunctive treatment for SLE patients.
Our study indicates that oral contraceptives do not increase the risk of flare among women with systemic lupus erythematosus whose disease is stable.
Recurrent CDAD is a persistent disease that may result in prolonged hospital stays, additional medical costs, and rare serious complications.
Patients with severe C. difficile colitis can be readily identified. Often they have coexisting illness that precludes operation. In this series, only 1 of 21 patients with severe C. difficile might have benefited from an aggressive surgical approach.
We may conclude that co-administration of zinc and folic acid significantly improved sperm parameters and increased varicocelectomy outcomes. So, medical treatment with compatible drugs after surgery might be advantageous for obtaining acceptable results.
We believe that NAC could improve some semen parameters and the oxidative/antioxidant status in patients with male infertility.
These results indicate that supplemental selenium and N-acetyl-cysteine improve semen quality. We advocate their use for male infertility treatment.
Coenzyme Q10 supplementation resulted in a statistically significant improvement in certain semen parameters. However, further studies are needed to draw a final conclusion and evaluate the effect of coenzyme Q10 supplementation on the pregnancy rate.
PTX administration significantly improves semen parameters in infertile men with idiopathic OAT.
The Menevit antioxidant appears to be a useful ancillary treatment that significantly improves pregnancy rates in couples undergoing IVF-ICSI treatment for severe male factor infertility.
1. Our results indicate that natural antioxidants (anthocyanins) can be useful in controlling of oxidative stress in males with oligospermia. 2. Anthocyanins from aronia melanocarpa induce enhanced levels of fructose in semen of males with oligospermia.
Sperm DNA fragmentation seems to affect embryo post-implantation development in ICSI procedures: high sperm DNA fragmentation can compromise 'embryo viability', resulting in pregnancy loss.
Although an improvement in some subfertility-specific issues was observed, the quality of reporting of RCTs still needs to improve to make them suitable for inclusion in meta-analyses such as those in the Cochrane Library.
In a convenience sample of healthy non-smoking men from a non-clinical setting, higher antioxidant intake was associated with higher sperm numbers and motility.
There is a role for these ceruminolytics in children with occlusive cerumen, but adults would be better treated in another way.
This study suggests that prophylactic treatment of the ear canal with a topical emollient may prevent formation of impacted earwax.
Results were consistent with a lack of impact on acute lower respiratory tract related mortality after vitamin A supplementation noted in other trials and a possible reduction in the severity of diarrhoea.
Treatment with vitamin A reduces morbidity and mortality in measles, and all children with severe measles should be given vitamin A supplements, whether or not they are thought to have a nutritional deficiency.
Only a slight relationship is found between vitamin A supplementation and ARI duration in under-fives.
Prophylactic administration of mega doses of Vitamin A to the mother soon after delivery and to the infant at six months do not have any beneficial impact on the incidence of diarrhea and ARI in infancy.
Vitamins C and E and the vitamin B complex have a protective effect on wasting in HIV-infected women. Prevention of diarrhea, severe respiratory tract infections, and anemia are likely to decrease the burden of wasting.
Daily low dose of VA compared with single high dose significantly reduced duration and incidence of respiratory infection but not of diarrhoea in hospitalized children.
High-dose vitamin A supplements are not recommended on a routine basis for all preschool children and should be offered only to individuals or populations with vitamin A deficiency.
Cinnamon is not effective for improving glycemic control in adolescents with type 1 diabetes.
The cinnamon extract seems to have a moderate effect in reducing fasting plasma glucose concentrations in diabetic patients with poor glycaemic control.
Cinnamon does not appear to improve A1C, FBG, or lipid parameters in patients with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
The mechanisms of benefit of the tomato-rich diet are not directly related to inhibition of markers of vascular inflammation.
Multiple dietary improvements can be achieved in a low-income population with an effective, multi-faceted intervention program. The changes in this trial exceeded those in previous community trials conducted in higher SES populations.
Newsletters can be effective in improving the fruit and vegetable consumption of adults. In this study, a computer-tailoring system did not significantly enhance the effect of the nutrition newsletters on fruit and vegetable intake.
Pinto bean intake should be encouraged to lower serum TC and LDL-C, thereby reducing risk for CHD.
Consumption of fruits and vegetables, particularly green leafy vegetables and vitamin C-rich fruits and vegetables, appears to have a protective effect against coronary heart disease.
These findings are relevant to future strategies for improving intake of fruit and vegetables, but demonstrate the complexity of interventions required, and the dangers inherent in assuming simplistic relations between psychosocial factors and behaviour.
Most large treatment effects emerge from small studies, and when additional trials are performed, the effect sizes become typically much smaller. Well-validated large effects are uncommon and pertain to nonfatal outcomes.
Although significantly fewer early cardiac events occurred with hirudin than with heparin, hirudin had no apparent benefit with longer-term follow-up.
INR fluctuations may decrease in selected patients with unstable INRs who receive vitamin K supplementation. A study with a larger sample size and longer follow-up period is needed. The results of the present study can help design such a study.
Low-intensity anticoagulation with warfarin prevented cerebral infarction in patients with nonrheumatic atrial fibrillation without producing an excess risk of major hemorrhage. This benefit extended to patients over 70 years of age.
As patients with atrial fibrillation age, the relative efficacy of AP to prevent ischemic stroke appears to decrease, whereas it does not change for OAC. Because stroke risk increases with age, the absolute benefit of OAC increases as patients get older.
Treatment with ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 improves mental/mnestic performance.
Periconceptional vitamin use decreases the incidence of a first occurrence of neural-tube defects.
These results suggest some modest benefit from the folic acid fortification on the prevalence of a number of non-NTD birth defects.
The present analysis highlights that poor, undernourished, uneducated women can have high compliance to antenatal supplementation if they are supplied with the tablets and reminded to take them regularly, and counselled about side-effects.
Compared to iron supplements, MM supplements did not increase weight gain during pregnancy after adjusting for baseline differences in BMI but may lead to greater postpartum weight retention among overweight women.
This study shows that few women in child-bearing years in Dublin have been advised on folic acid, and very few are taking supplements. However, if advised appropriately the majority would be willing to take periconceptional folic acid in tablet form.
A one-time, brief, computerized counseling session about folate with the provision of free folate tablets increased the knowledge and use of folate supplements among women > or =6 months later.
We demonstrated that periconceptional maternal folic acid supplement use was beneficial to reduce the risk for CLP. An additional effect of food folate was shown.
Folic acid at 1 mg/d does not reduce colorectal adenoma risk. Further research is needed to investigate the possibility that folic acid supplementation might increase the risk of colorectal neoplasia.
Periconceptional care is feasible and has many benefits. Thus, proper preparation for conception is the earliest and probably the most important method of health promotion in general, particularly for the prevention of congenital abnormalities.
Food fortification with folic acid was associated with a significant reduction in the rate of neural-tube defects in Canada. The decrease was greatest in areas in which the baseline rate was high.
Compared with placebo, red clover isoflavone supplementation in postmenopausal women significantly decreased menopausal symptoms and had a positive effect on vaginal cytology and triglyceride levels.
Isoflavone supplementation improves menopausal symptoms only in women with the ability to produce equol.
We concluded that the daily standardized soy extract with 120 mg isoflavones' effect on symptoms was similar to that from estrogen. Soy isoflavone has no effect on endometrium and vaginal mucosa during the treatment.
In this group of 94 older postmenopausal women with a high frequency of mild menopausal symptoms, 3 months of soy supplements containing phytoestrogens did not provide symptomatic relief compared with placebo.
The soy isoflavone extract exerted favorable effects on vasomotor symptoms and good compliance, providing a safe and effective alternative therapeutic for postmenopausal women.
Soy germ isoflavone exerted favorable effects on vasomotor symptoms and lipid profile, showing itself to be an interesting alternative therapy for the postmenopausal women with contraindication for conventional HRT.
Present data do not show any advantage of isoflavones or melatonin over placebo for the relief of menopausal symptoms. However, the effect in psychological symptoms in the isoflavones + melatonin group should be further investigated.
The women's primary reason for starting HRT was climacteric complaints. Side-effects were common and constituted the major reason for discontinuation of therapy. The women perceived weight gain as a side-effect.
Racial/ethnic differences in reasons for CAM use highlight cultural and social factors that are important to consider in public evaluation of the risks and benefits of CAM remedies and treatments.
Caregivers should recognize that variations exist and ask patients specific questions about symptoms and their impact on usual functioning.
Postmenopausal therapy with estrogen plus progestin increases risk for venous thromboembolism in women with coronary heart disease. This risk should be considered when the risks and benefits of therapy are being weighed.
These results suggest that isoflavone supplementation may produce a slight to modest reduction the number of daily flushes in menopausal women and that the benefit may be more apparent in women experiencing a high number of flushes per day.
LGG (dose of 60 million cells) could decrease the frequency and duration of diarrhea and vomiting and reduced hospital stay in patients of PD.
Our findings show the importance of RSV and adenoviruses associated with ALRI in hospitalized children under 2 years of age and the different epidemiological patterns of the two viruses in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Prednisolone has no significant effect on reducing the prevalence of post-bronchiolitis wheezing and on improving the acute course of illness in hospitalized infants with bronchiolitis.
ATS treatments improve sensation in the feet of subjects with DPN, improve balance, and reduce pain.
Intensive glycemic control can delay the onset and progression of the early stages of diabetic microvascular complications in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes.
Two portions of oily fish per week led to significant reductions in TAG relative to consumption of two portions of white fish per week. Changes in TAG were maximized when combined with lower LA:LNA.
Decreasing the n-6:n-3 does not influence insulin sensitivity or lipase activities in older subjects. The reduction in plasma triacylglycerol after an increased intake of n-3 long-chain PUFAs results in favorable changes in LDL size.
The results do not support beneficial effects of CLA/n-3 LC-PUFA for beta-cell dysfunction or insulin resistance in humans but suggest that insulin sensitivity in older obese subjects is reduced.
In a CHD high-risk population with LA-rich background diet, these cross-sectional data suggest that replacing LA in the diet by ALA may decrease diastolic blood pressure, and may increase serum triacylglycerol concentration.
A six-fold increased ALA intake lowers CRP, when compared to a control diet high in LA. The present study found no effects on markers for atherosclerosis.
The atherogenic risk profile was improved with K85 in subjects with combined hyperlipidaemia, but n-3 fatty acids supplementation did not affect glucose/insulin homeostasis.
With fish-oil supplementation, there was no evidence of increased lipid peroxidation when assessed by plasma F(2)-isoprostanes and MDA, although plasma TBARS was higher than with sunflower-oil and safflower-oil supplementation.
Despite beneficial changes in dietary habits in the intervention group compared with the control group, after 1 year BMI increased and total fat and saturated fat intake were still too high.
In humans with LDL phenotype B, c9, t11 CLA and t10, c12 CLA do not beneficially change risk factors for cardiovascular disease or diabetes.
Dietary ALA has no effect on plasma adiponectin concentration in dyslipidemic men.
A CLA isomeric mixture had at most modest effects on adiposity and worsened endothelial function. On the basis of these results, the use of the isomeric mixture of CLA as an aid to weight loss cannot be recommended.
ALA is metabolized to EPA in humans to a significant extent. The degree to which rapeseed oil (ca 50g/day) affects the proportion of EPA resembled the effect of a weekly portion (50-100g) of fatty fish depending on the fat content of the fish.
These results suggest novel mechanisms for the cardioprotective effects of walnuts and flax, and further work is needed to identify the bioactives responsible for these effects.
The long-chain n-3 FA, especially DHA, were consistently and significantly reduced in patients experiencing CHD events. These findings add further support to the view that long-chain n-3 FA are cardioprotective.
These findings do not support associations between intake of total fat, cholesterol, or specific types of fat and risk of stroke in men.
Our results do not support the concept that modifying current intakes of dietary linoleic acid has an effect on changing levels of arachidonic acid in plasma/serum or erythrocytes in adults consuming Western-type diets.
In the management of mild chronic stable angina there appears to be little advantage gained from using combination therapy for ischaemia reduction.
Use of transdermal nitroglycerin as a prophylactic measure for intravenous infusion failures is a therapeutic option for patients requiring long-term intravenous therapy (i.e., > 50 h).
Based on these results, the new ankle activity score could be a better complement in the complex evaluation of ankle instability.
Plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA was significantly increased in patients with lung cancer compared with that in patients with other benign lung diseases. Plasma hnRNP B1 mRNA may be useful as a potential marker for the detection of NSCLC.
The MENQOL (Menopause-Specific Quality of Life) questionnaire is a self-administered instrument which functions well in differentiating between women according to their quality of life and in measuring changes in their quality of life.
Vitamin supplementation to HIV-1-infected women is effective in improving the vitamin status of infants during the first 6 months of age.
Multivitamin supplements delay the progression of HIV disease and provide an effective, low-cost means of delaying the initiation of antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected women.
Multivitamin supplementation (B-complex, C and E) resulted in a reduction in risk of elevated depressive symptoms comparable to MDD and improvement in quality of life in HIV-positive pregnant women in Tanzania.
Gestational age, maternal weight at second trimester and infant gender were the main predictors of neonatal weight and length.
Vitamin A supplementation does not appear to increase haemoglobin and plasma erythropoietin concentrations among pregnant women with a high prevalence of anaemia in Malawi.
Small weekly doses of vitamin A or beta-carotene given to women before conception, during pregnancy, and through 24 wk postpartum did not improve fetal or early infant survival in Nepal.
Pregnant and lactating Nepali women have lower serum carotenoid and tocopherol levels than well-nourished populations. beta-carotene supplementation appeared to increase levels of tocopherol and other carotenoids in this population.
Iron deficiency may limit the efficacy of vitamin A to normalize dark adaptation in pregnant Nepali women. Further studies are needed to assess the effect of simultaneous delivery of iron and vitamin A for the treatment of nightblindness.
The results of the present study suggest that the antioxidant lycopene reduces the development of pre-eclampsia and intrauterine growth retardation in primigravida women.
Spinach and carrots can provide a significant amount of vitamin A even though the amount is not as great as previously proposed. Food matrices greatly affect the bioavailability of plant carotenoids, their efficiency of conversion to vitamin A, or both.
These are the first national data on the burden of genital warts in the United States. The substantial burden of genital warts could be reduced by a prophylactic HPV vaccine to types 6 and 11.
Five percent imiquimod cream is an effective and safe self-administered therapy for external anogenital warts when applied 3 times a week overnight for up to 16 weeks. The recurrence rate is low.
In summary, this study represents the first in-depth, prospective outcome analysis of patients with cervical spondylotic and discogenic radiculopathy.
The effectiveness of exercise in reducing symptoms of depression cannot be determined because of a lack of good quality research on clinical populations with adequate follow up.
The present study has confirmed that distress is associated with both birthweight and GA. Further research is needed to evaluate the effectiveness of psychological interventions that can improve maternal and foetal well-being.
Waist reduction of 5-10 cm in Caucasian women, across a range of baseline BMI 25-50 kg/m2 or waist circumference 72-133 cm, may be used as guideline to encourage overweight women to achieve a realistic target with a high probability of health benefits.
The ORIGIN trial will determine whether or not either or both of these interventions can reduce CV events.
Individual dietary interventions in primary prevention can achieve modest improvements in diet and cardiovascular disease risk status that are maintained for 9 to 18 months.
The association of blood pressure with sodium intake is substantially larger than is generally appreciated and increases with age and initial blood pressure.
Non-HDL-C is an important target of therapy for CHD prevention. Most lipid-modifying drugs used as monotherapy have an approximately 1:1 relationship between percent non-HDL-C lowering and CHD reduction.
The decrease of LDL-c observed with hypolipidemic diets (low in fat contents or Mediterranean) was more significant in those individuals with hypercholesterolemia who had higher levels of LDL-c at the onset.
Treatment by a dietician achieved better results and should remain the standard. Physicians should focus on the detection and control of other heart disease risk factors.
Very high intakes of foods rich in soluble fiber lower blood cholesterol levels even when the main dietary modifiers of blood lipids--namely, saturated fat and cholesterol--are greatly reduced.
Major weight loss is associated with sustained and marked improvements in blood lipids and hemostatic profile, irrespective of the tested slimming and maintenance regimens.
Weight loss achieved through a lifestyle intervention of energy restriction and increased physical activity is an equally effective therapy in African-American and Caucasian obese, postmenopausal women for improving glucose and lipid CHD risk factors.
These data demonstrate that current usual care is insufficient in controlling risk factors of coronary artery disease. However, intensive physical exercise and low-fat diet remain an effective form of treatment after more than 5 years.
Structured "whole of diet" advice that included 30 g of walnuts/day delivering substantial amounts of polyunsaturated fatty acid improved the lipid profile of patients with type 2 diabetes.
Both diets were effective in decreasing body weight. At steady weight conditions, only the HiMUFA diet improved LDL and HDL subclass distribution abnormalities present in mildly obese normolipidemic women.
Poor compliance with lipid-lowering treatment is an important health issue that has been associated with unfavorable cardiovascular outcome. Increasing adherence rates should become a major concern for physicians.
In patients on hemodialysis, rapid intravenous injection of 510 mg of ferumoxytol led to significantly greater hemoglobin increases compared with oral iron, with comparable tolerability.
Correction of anemia with rhuEpo in patients with CKD seems to improve cardiac performance and geometry.
Our review shows that patients on hemodialysis therapy have better Hb level response when treated with IV iron. For patients with CKD, this effect is small.
Overall prevalences were high in comparison with previous studies conducted in Brazil. A female excess of non-psychotic disorders (anxiety, phobias, somatisation and depression) and a male excess for alcoholism were consistently found.
Passiflora incarnata was associated with significant adverse effects in this patient. It is important to ask specifically about the use of herbal medicines in patients with undiagnosed illnesses.
The results of the study need replication, but suggest a potentially important role for antidepressants, particularly imipramine, in patients suffering from GAD.
The DASH diet can likely reduce most of the metabolic risks in both men and women; the related mechanisms need further study.
Adherence to the traditional Mediterranean diet was associated with a reduction in the concentrations of inflammation and coagulation markers. This may partly explain the beneficial actions of this diet on the cardiovascular system.
The degree of protection from moderate doses of alcohol should be reconsidered. Further research investigating the effect of drinking patterns on the risk of coronary heart disease should be performed. Caution in making general recommendations is needed.
A greater adherence to the Mediterranean diet, as reflected by a higher Alternate Mediterranean Diet Score, was associated with a lower risk of incident CHD and stroke in women.
Greater adherence to the traditional Mediterranean diet is associated with a significant reduction in total mortality.
The excess of depression in thyroid-antibody-positive women in the post-partum period is not corrected by daily administration of thyroxine.
Undiagnosed hypothyroidism in pregnant women may adversely affect their fetuses; therefore, screening for thyroid deficiency during pregnancy may be warranted.
The prevalence of antithyroid Abs in an unselected pregnant population in the late first trimester was about 18%.
Low maternal plasma fT4 concentrations during early pregnancy may be an important risk factor for impaired infant development.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) occurred in 10% of women and 5% of men. RLS prevalence decreases after the age of 64. RLS is often underdiagnosed and few subjects receive recommended RLS drug treatment.
Endurance exercise may help to achieve substantial improvement in the mood of selected patients with major depression in a short time.
Major depression is common in patients hospitalized with CHF and is independently associated with a poor prognosis.
The Australian public's beliefs have changed over 8 years to be more like those of mental health professionals. This change may have positive implications for help-seeking and treatment concordance.
Study results, together with results from mental health literacy studies, advance our understanding about consumers' views about the frequency of trialling quite differing strategies and offer some information about their judged effectiveness.
These data on the burden of depression worldwide represent a major public health problem that affects patients and society.
Treatment with topical alpha-lactalbumin-oleic acid has a beneficial and lasting effect on skin papillomas.
pBVE containing translational enhancer is a high level prokaryotic expression vector. The theory of quantitative translational control can effectively be used to enhance the IFN-alpha 1C gene expression level in E.coli.
Cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen for hand and foot warts in our study was equally effective when applied with a cotton wool bud or by means of a spray.
HPV is more vulnerable to hyperthermia than to cryotherapy.
The present study suggests that public shower users are at greater risk for plantar warts than are locker room users who do not use communal showers.
Our results could not confirm LGG as an effective treatment of AD in infancy.
Supplementation of infant formulas with viable but not heat-inactivated LGG is a potential approach for the management of atopic eczema and cow's milk allergy.
Both synbiotics and prebiotics used alone seem able to significantly improve the manifestations of AD in children aged 2 years and over.
A combination of L rhamnosus 19070-2 and L reuteri DSM 122460 was beneficial in the management of AD. The effect was more pronounced in patients with a positive skin prick test response and increased IgE levels.
These results suggest that oral administration of this new probiotic preparation is effective in preventing flare-ups of chronic pouchitis.
Our pilot safety study suggests that the use of LCS as a probiotic in enterally fed CIC is safe.
Our results suggest that large increases in dietary sodium result in physiological deterioration and increased morbidity in male asthmatic patients.
These data suggest that individuals with EIA might benefit from lower salt diets.
The use of a low sodium diet as an adjunctive therapy to normal treatment has no additional therapeutic benefit in adults with asthma and bronchial reactivity to methacholine.
These findings do not support the hypothesis that a high dietary sodium intake is a risk factor for airway hyperreactivity or atopic disease in the general adult population.
If airways responsiveness is related to dietary sodium the relationship is not likely to be strong.
Home environmental factors appear to be strongly associated with asthma in schoolchildren in a developing nation. These findings suggest a number of hypotheses for further studies.
We suggest that exposure to higher allergen levels has increased airway abnormalities in atopic children or that mechanisms that protected airways of earlier generations of children have been altered by new environmental factors.
Listening to music during ambulatory colonoscopies decreases the level of anxiety that is inherent to the process without other anxiolytic methods.
Although the findings were not statistically significant, most subjects enjoyed listening to the music, and therefore the use of music as an adjuvant to other therapies may be an appropriate nursing intervention.
The benefits of preventing physiological reactions to pain were demonstrated. Music is a simple, safe and effective method of reducing potentially harmful physiological and psychological responses arising from pain.
Data indicated that music listening decreased heart rate, respiratory rate, and Profile of Mood States scores, indicating relaxation and mood improvement.
Lavender oil administered in an aroma stream shows modest efficacy in the treatment of agitated behaviour in patients with severe dementia.
Accompanying music therapy reduces requirement of analgesia during colonoscopy, favours completion of the procedure and shortens examination time. Music therapy seems to promote safer conditions for endoscopical practice and diminishs patients discomfort.
Patients recovering from cardiac surgery may benefit from music therapy.
The simple modification of allowing older ED patients to sit in reclining chairs resulted in less pain and higher satisfaction.
Natural sunlight can be an underestimated and uncontrolled light therapy for bipolar depression.
We conclude that the music therapy with a key-lighting keyboard system in elderly patients does not change postoperative hemodynamics and helps to maintain perioperative mental functioning.
Results provided preliminary evidence that VR can function as a strong nonpharmacologic pain reduction technique for adult burn patients during physical therapy and potentially for other painful procedures or pain populations.
Single room maternity care was associated with a significant improvement in client satisfaction because of many factors, including the physical setting itself, avoidance of transfers, and improved continuity of nursing care.
These results demonstrate that music therapy is an effective method for decreasing pain and dis-comfort for patients with leg fractures.
Evening bright light pulses may ameliorate sleep-wake cycle disturbances in some patients with Alzheimer's disease. This effect may be mediated through a chronobiological mechanism.
The distraction intervention decreased symptom distress, was well received, and was easy to implement in the clinical setting.
The patients who attended the sensory environment did slightly better that those who attended the traditional relaxation programme in terms of self-efficacy. Thus the current study indicates the potential for future research into chronic pain management.
Music therapy during colonoscopy markedly reduces fear-related stress, as indicated by changes in salivary cortisol levels.
Regarding worries and fear, patients seemed to benefit by the intervention of music. beta-endorphin was lowered significantly after music despite physical activity.
VR glasses are a feasible, age-appropriate, nonpharmacologic adjunct to conventional care in managing the pain associated with LPs in adolescents.
With the anxiolytic effects of music, ESWL can be performed more effectively with the patient in a comfortable state. Listening to music by patients during the ESWL session is a feasible and convenient alternative to sedatives and anxiolytics.
Long-term supplementation with oral GTPs was not superior to placebo in improving clinical or histologic photoaging parameters after 24 months of use.
Only caffeine was thermogenic in the given dose and caused no haemodynamic side effects. The sample size was probably too small to detect any appetite suppressant properties of the treatments. Further investigations are required.
The effect of black tea on soluble P-selectin provides a potential mechanism for cardiovascular benefits of regular ingestion of tea.
Overall, regular ingestion of black tea did not alter mean tHcy concentrations. However, individual differences in O-methylation of polyphenolic compounds may influence the ultimate effects of black tea on tHcy.
Compared with placebo, 6 weeks of tea consumption leads to lower post-stress cortisol and greater subjective relaxation, together with reduced platelet activation. Black tea may have health benefits in part by aiding stress recovery.
Both black and green tea increases acutely wave reflections and only black tea increases aortic stiffness. Tea flavonoids may play a role in the attenuation of the effects of caffeine contained in tea.
These findings do not support a positive relationship between coffee or tea consumption and coronary heart disease in this British study where most coffee consumed is instant coffee.
If high-risk strategies are to have a major impact on CVD in the population, they need to be more widely used than previously envisaged. Population-wide reduction of major risk factors is needed if CVD is to be substantially reduced.
Poor SQ is common among HD patients in DOPPS countries and is independently associated with several QOL indices, medication use patterns and mortality. Assessment and management of SQ should be an important component of care.
Pain was much more prevalent among our CKD compared with non-CKD patients.
It is important to screen female adolescents for dysmenorrhea, provide them with information about the beneficial side effects of oral contraceptives, and follow up these young women to make sure they are experiencing the alleviation of their symptoms.
Changes in dietary composition within prevailing norms can affect physiological adaptations that defend body weight. Reduction in glycemic load may aid in the prevention or treatment of obesity, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes mellitus.
A low-GI diet seems to be a promising alternative to standard dietary treatment for obesity in children. Long-term randomized controlled trials of a low-GI diet in the prevention and treatment of obesity are needed.
In overweight patients with NIDDM, reducing diet GI improves overall blood glucose and lipid control.
Increases in obesity and diabetes among US adults continue in both sexes, all ages, all races, all educational levels, and all smoking levels. Obesity is strongly associated with several major health risk factors.
Elevated creatinine levels are common in older adults and are associated with increased risk of mortality, CVD, and CHF. The increased risk is apparent early in renal disease.
Little evidence supports the use of diets other than LFDs for weight reduction. With the increasing prevalence of morbid obesity, long-term follow-up in RCTs is needed to evaluate the effect of LCDs, VLCDs and PSMFs more fully.
Interventions to reduce diabetes risk should primarily target weight reduction.
Diet and endurance exercise improved BMI, body composition, and body fat distribution and, thus, may delay or prevent type 2 diabetes in Japanese Americans with IGT.
T2DM has major quality of life and cost implications. Therefore, more research is needed to establish safe and cost effective ways to prevent this modern epidemic.
The present randomized study shows that an intense lifestyle programme has sustained beneficial effects on fibrinolysis.
Type 2 diabetes can be prevented by changes in the lifestyles of high-risk subjects.
Lifestyle education was effective for reducing both 2-h plasma glucose and RR in high-risk individuals and may be a useful tool in preventing diabetes.
Over the 3-wk intervention period, diet-induced change in the triacylglycerol or phospholipid L:O was not associated with either increased stimulation of GLP-1 or a change in insulin sensitivity in people with type 2 diabetes.
Lactobacillus GG seems neither to prevent endoscopic recurrence at one year nor reduce the severity of recurrent lesions.
AB-Cap-10 had no significant effect on the chosen end points. Post hoc analysis demonstrated amelioration of clinical symptoms in the AB-Cap-10 group, indicating that probiotic treatment may potentially influence the disease course of CC.
This study supports the effects of auricular acupressure by seed-pressure method in improving menstrual symptoms, and offers a noninvasive complementary therapy for women with primary dysmenorrhea.
The success rate of AP for the treatment of PD symptoms within 1 year after the AP treatment is 93.3% in the first group and 3.7% in the placebo group.
Acupressure to the SP6 meridian can be an effective non-invasive nursing intervention for alleviation of primary dysmenorrhea, with effects lasting 2h post treatment.
ALS incidence is within a narrow range across countries, with a peak between 65 and 75 years and a higher incidence in men. A north to south latitude gradient of ALS incidence is not supported by the results of cohort studies.
Both acupuncture and physiotherapy are effective forms of treatment. Since an untreated control group was not part of the study design, the magnitude of this improvement cannot be quantified.
Acupuncture is an effective short term treatment for patients with chronic neck pain, but there is only limited evidence for long term effects after five treatments.
The spinal manipulation clinical prediction rule can be used to improve decision making for patients with low back pain.
Individuals seeking care for neck or back pain have worse health status than those who do not seek care. Patients consulting chiropractors alone report fewer comorbidities and are less limited in their activities than those consulting medical doctors.
There is strong evidence suggesting that acupuncture is effective in the short-term relief of lateral epicondyle pain.
In conclusion, the hypothesis that acupuncture is efficacious in the treatment of neck pain is not based on the available evidence from sound clinical trials. Further studies are justified.
There were disturbance of immune regulatory function with children viral myocarditis patients and SHLP is an effective drug in treating children viral myocarditis.
Cardiac abnormalities are the leading identifiable cause of sudden death among military recruits; however, more than one third of sudden deaths remain unexplained after detailed medical investigation.
IA and subsequent IgG substitution mitigate myocardial inflammation in DCM.
These data demonstrate a long-term benefit of immunosuppressive therapy in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and HLA upregulation on biopsy specimens. Thus, restoration of immunosuppressive therapy for such patients should be considered.
This study indicates that sustained dietary protein restriction can help to preserve renal function, decrease albuminuria, and lower the baseline GFR while maintaining functional renal reserve in patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.
Substantial protein restriction in primary care, type 2 diabetic patients with no nephropathy is barely feasible. However, even a small reduction has a substantial and potentially beneficial effect on albuminuria.
It is concluded that, in the longer term prevention or delay of renal damage in patients with type 2 diabetes, protein restriction is neither feasible nor efficacious.
A normoproteic diet with chicken as the only source of meat may represent an alternative strategy for treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria.
Dietary protein restriction for four weeks induces a reversible decline in GFR and albuminuria in insulin-dependent diabetic patients with diabetic nephropathy, whereas systemic blood pressure remains unchanged.
Total protein and fat intake were not associated with the presence of microalbuminuria, but a diet including a high amount of fish protein seemed to lessen the risk.
A normoproteic diet with chicken and fish as the only meat protein source decreases the GFR in the hyperfiltering normoalbuminuric IDDM patients. The GFR reduction after this diet is similar to that observed after an LPD.
Implementation of a soy-based diet appears to reduce the GFR and total and LDL cholesterol of young adults with type 1 diabetes and glomerular hyperfiltration, thus affecting positively their clinical profile.
These findings suggest that CL has significant weight gain benefits over ND, and there are no short-term advantages of ND over cycled light for health in preterm infants.
This randomized trial of continuous light reduction in the first few weeks of life for very low birth weight infants showed no effect on medical outcomes.
There is insufficient evidence to support the NIDCAP to improve medical and neurodevelopmental outcomes of preterm infants.
Providing basic developmental care in the NICU had no effect on short-term physical and neurologic outcomes in infants who were born at <32 weeks' gestation.
Basic developmental care has no positive effect on neurological and mental development or growth at 1 and 2 years of age in infants born at <32 weeks. A positive effect on psychomotor development at 1 year did not continue at 2 years of age.
The specific exercise program was effective to improve dual-task performance in patients with dementia.
The exercise programme was feasible and safe and may help improve balance and mobility performance and reduce falls risk in people with Alzheimer's disease.
We conclude that there is evidence supporting the hypothesis that physical activity is likely to prevent the development of VaD, and should be highlighted as part of secondary prevention programmes in people at risk for cerebrovascular disease.
After 6 months of silver yoga exercises, the sleep quality, depression, and health status of older adults were all improved.
Our results suggest that physical activity is inversely associated with risk of dementia. Future studies should examine the optimal dose of physical activity to induce protection, which presently remains unclear.
There is some evidence that physical activity interventions improve physical function in older people with dementia. Evidence for an effect on depression and quality of life is limited.
These findings are consistent with recent in vitro studies of insulin effects on Abeta and support the notion that insulin may modulate Abeta42 levels acutely in humans.
Supplementation with vitamin A and iron was helpful to improve body iron nutritional status and immunological function obviously in preschool children with iron-deficiency and sub-clinical deficiency of vitamin A.
The school-based WISDS reduced anemia prevalence among anemic schoolchildren and resulted in high compliance to and coverage of iron supplementation.
Severe, chronic iron deficiency in infancy identifies children who continue at developmental and behavioral risk >10 years after iron treatment.
These results suggest that the Ayurvedic intervention may benefit patients with higher baseline HbA1c values, warranting further research.
These results concur with earlier animal studies that indicate that Cogent db is safe, reliable, tolerable, and efficacious in the control of type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Taking cinnamon could be useful for lowering serum HbA1C in type 2 diabetics with HbA1C >7.0 in addition to usual care.
Adjunct use of fenugreek seeds improves glycemic control and decreases insulin resistance in mild type-2 diabetic patients. There is also a favourable effect on hypertriglyceridemia.
This study suggests that Coccinia cordifolia extract has a potential hypoglycemic action in patients with mild diabetes. However, further studies are needed to elucidate mechanisms of action.
Diabetes is an independent predictor of CAM use in the general population and in individuals with diabetes. CAM use is more common in individuals aged > or =65 years and those with more than high school education.
Our results indicate that acupressure at the PC-6 anatomical site is effective in reducing symptoms of nausea but not frequency of vomiting in pregnant women.
Acupressure wristband might be an alternative therapy for morning sickness in early pregnancy, especially before pharmaceutical treatment is considered.
Acupressure on KID21 point is more effective than sham acupressure in reduction of nausea and vomiting in pregnancy.
Ginger is more effective than acupressure to relieve mild to moderate nausea and vomiting in symptomatic pregnant women in less than 16 weeks of gestational age.
Ginger was effective for the relief of mild to moderate nausea and vomiting in pregnant women at less than 16 weeks gestation.
Lemon scent can be effective in reducing nausea and vomiting of pregnancy.
Several factors, including the severity of physical symptoms of NVP and psychosocial factors, are associated with the need for hospital care. In addition to treatment of physical symptoms, it is important to address other factors associated with NVP.
Nausea and vomiting of pregnancy can severely reduce a woman's QOL and ability to function. The degree of limitation is associated with the severity of symptoms.
Advice about herbal medicine is readily available over the Internet. The advice offered is misleading at best and dangerous at worst. Potential Internet users should be made aware of these problems and ways of minimizing the risk should be found.
A low-GI diet gives a modest improvement in long-term glycemic control but not plasma lipids in normolipidemic well-controlled subjects with NIDDM.
In type 1 diabetic patients, an HF diet is feasible in the long term and, compared with an LF diet, improves glycemic control and reduces the number of hypoglycemic events.
We conclude that a low-GI diet, containing Mexican-style foods, may help to improve the metabolic control in type 2 obese diabetic subjects during a 6-week period.
These data indicate that the differential glycemic response of foods tested in isolation under fixed time are not preserved under conditions of chronic ad libitum consumption of mixed meals.
Flexible dietary instruction based on the food pyramid with an emphasis of low-GI foods improves HbA(1c) levels without increasing the risk of hypoglycemia and enhances the quality of life in children with diabetes.
A diet characterized by low-GI starchy foods lowers the glucose and insulin responses throughout the day and improves the lipid profile and capacity for fibrinolysis, suggesting a therapeutic potential in diabetes.
Implementation of a low glycemic load diet was associated with substantial and sustained improvements in abdominal obesity, cholesterol and glycemic control.
These findings support the hypothesis that diets with a high glycemic load and a low cereal fiber content increase risk of NIDDM in men. Further, they suggest that grains should be consumed in a minimally refined form to reduce the incidence of NIDDM.
These findings from a nationally representative sample of US adults suggest that high dietary glycemic index and high glycemic load are associated with a lower concentration of plasma HDL-C.
Consideration of glycaemic indices in making dietary recommendations may be expected to produce additional health benefit.
Oral CoQ(10) improves LV contractility in CHF without any side effects. This improvement is associated with an enhanced functional capacity.
These results indicate that the plasma level of oxLDL is a useful predictor of mortality in patients with CHF, suggesting that oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathophysiology of CHF.
Under the conditions of this study, repetitive inhaled isopropyl alcohol only achieved a transient antiemetic effect in children with established postoperative nausea or vomiting following general anesthesia and surgery.
There is great potential for more collaborative research by nurses to explore the clinical applications in greater detail and to move beyond the low dose paradigm of application of essential oils.
These findings are compatible with the view that atherosclerotic disease accounts for considerable cognitive impairment in the general population.
Lactobacillus helveticus LBK-16H fermented milk containing bioactive peptides, in daily use, does have a BP-lowering effect in hypertensive subjects and is thus a potential for the dietary treatment of hypertension.
This trial demonstrated the beneficial effect of sour milk on BP in borderline hypertensive men who were not taking antihypertensive medication.
Daily ingestion of the tablets containing powdered fermented milk with L. helveticus CM4 in subjects with high-normal blood pressure or mild hypertension reduces elevated blood pressure without any adverse effects.
This study shows that C12 Peptide reduces BP in prehypertensive people.
The daily consumption of 125 ml of a milk drink supplemented with whey peptides was not found to reduce blood pressure and/or inflammation markers in mildly hypertensive subjects, although preceding in vitro tests showed a potent ACE-inhibition.
The study shows that HBP seems to have superior reproducibility compared with both CBP and ABP. In addition, HBP can improve the accuracy of antihypertensive drug trials, thereby reducing the sample size required.
These preliminary data are encouraging and deserve testing in a larger and longer treatment trial.
The results in this study indicate behavioural therapy is an effective treatment for depression with outcomes equal to that of the current recommended psychological intervention. Future research needs to address issues of parsimony of such interventions.
The neonates' bone indices increased significantly with gestational age and birthweight but this was not related to serum 25-OHD levels in the infants and their mothers.
Maternal vitamin D deficiency may be an independent risk factor for preeclampsia. Vitamin D supplementation in early pregnancy should be explored for preventing preeclampsia and promoting neonatal well-being.
Maternal 25OHD concentrations are inversely related to fasting glucose, although further studies are required to establish whether this is independent of the effects of ethnic background.
Hypovitaminosis D at 30 weeks gestation is common in Mysore mothers. It is not associated with an increased risk of gestational diabetes, impaired fetal growth or altered neonatal cord plasma insulin secretory profile.
Vitamin D deficiency was present in many US adolescents in this urban clinic-based sample. The prevalence was highest in African American teenagers and during winter, although the problem seems to be common across sex, season, and ethnicity.
Our findings are a cause for concern, because vitamin D deficient women are at risk of bone disease and their children at risk of neonatal hypocalcaemia and rickets.
We observed a high prevalence of physiologically significant hypovitaminosis D among pregnant women and their newborns, the magnitude of which warrants public health intervention.
These results show that a positive correlation of 25(OH) vitamin D concentrations with insulin sensitivity and vitamin D deficiency could be a confirmative sign of insulin resistance.
The prevalence of vitamin D deficiency in pregnant non-Western women in the Netherlands is very high, and screening should be recommended.
The 100-microg/d dosage of vitamin D3 effectively increased 25(OH)D to high-normal concentrations in practically all adults and serum 25(OH)D remained within the physiologic range; therefore, we consider 100 microg vitamin D3/d to be a safe intake.
25(OH) D concentrations are associated with body composition variables especially by BF, independently of seasonal variability. Therefore, body adiposity should be considered when assessing vitamin D requirements in obese patients.
Obesity-associated vitamin D insufficiency is likely due to the decreased bioavailability of vitamin D(3) from cutaneous and dietary sources because of its deposition in body fat compartments.
Findings from the present study suggest that maternal vitamin D deficiency in early pregnancy is significantly associated with an elevated risk for GDM.
TENS may be a suitable option for reducing the pain intensity during venous cannulation. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01607463.
These data support the conclusion that Pregabalin gives better results when combined with TENS therapy, which is an analgesic nonpharmacologic procedure. Therefore, a multidisciplinary treatment should be considered for this kind of pain.
TENS was found to be effective and rapid in reducing pain during emergency transport of patients with acute low back pain and should be considered due to its ease of use and lack of side effects in the study population.
In this single-case study with ten patients (all female), APS was not a helpful method to reduce pain, to improve patients' perception of daily functioning and social participation in patients with FMS.
This trial shows that local TENS is a rapid and effective treatment for renal colic pain. We found TENS to be a good nondrug therapy under the difficult circumstances of out of hospital rescue.
TENS is a simple, effective and safe short-term (3 months) treatment for the management of vestibulodynia.
The use of the Saunders cervical traction device produced an increase in painless hand grip strength in patients with cervical spine pain. Both treatments had a limited effect on maximum hand grip strength.
Regardless of whether low-frequency electrical stimulation was used as an intervention, the use of plantar fascia-specific stretching and prefabricated foot orthoses provided short-term (3-month) pain relief and improvement in functional activity levels.
Blinding is rarely tested. Test methods vary, and the reporting of tests, and test results, is incomplete. There is a considerable methodological uncertainty how best to assess blinding, and an urgent need for improved methodology and improved reporting.
Alternating frequency stimulation produced a greater elevation in the HPT, but a greater increase in the MPT was achieved using 100Hz stimulation.
Curcumin seems to be a promising and safe medication for maintaining remission in patients with quiescent UC. Further studies on curcumin should strengthen our findings.
These results indicate that curcumin has direct antiangiogenic activity in vitro and in vivo. The activity of curcumin in inhibiting carcinogenesis in diverse organs such as the skin and colon may be mediated in part through angiogenesis inhibition.
Potassium supplementation reduces blood pressure substantially in African Americans consuming a diet low in potassium. Increased potassium intake may play an important role in reducing blood pressure in this population at high risk for hypertension.
A 60-mmol daily supplement of potassium chloride reduces clinic and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure in elderly hypertensive patients.
As compared with bare-metal stents, the slow-release, polymer-based, paclitaxel-eluting stent is safe and markedly reduces the rates of clinical and angiographic restenosis at nine months.
In this preliminary, short-term study of patients with previous coronary restenosis, coronary stenting followed by catheter-based intracoronary radiotherapy substantially reduced the rate of subsequent restenosis.
The findings of this study suggest that hyperbaric oxygen therapy is not effective in the treatment of exercise-induced muscle injury as indicated by the markers evaluated.
These results indicate that HBOT is not an effective therapy for the treatment of DOMS.
HBO cannot be recommended as an effective method of treatment of this form of muscle injury.
Dietary manipulation, either by modifying food supplements or by reducing weight, may give some clinical benefit although no significant improvement can be observed assessing the results with a composite index.
The evaluation of copper intake seems to be of fundamental importance. It may influence the efficiency of the organic serum response. More research is needed to indicate, with security, adequate zinc intake.
Occult vitamin D intoxication was detected in patients who were using dietary supplements that contained an unadvertised high level of vitamin D. Resolution of vitamin D intoxication was associated with a rebound in bone mineral density.
Overfortification of milk with vitamin D can lead to hypervitaminosis D, manifested by severe illness and death. The episode highlights the need for monitoring the fortification process and enforcing the upper limit for vitamin D addition to milk.
We found that vitamin D insufficiency is associated with increased BF and decreased height but not changes in peak bone mass.
Acupuncture reduced the need for pharmacological and invasive methods during delivery. Acupuncture is a good supplement to existing pain relief methods.
Acupuncture could reduce pain experience, active phase duration and oxytocin units. Patients were satisfied and no adverse effects were noted.
These findings showed that SP6 acupressure was effective for decreasing labor pain and shortening the length of delivery time. SP6 acupressure can be an effective nursing management for women in labor.
Women given sterile water injection experience less labour pain compared to women given acupuncture.
Acupuncture during labor reduced the requirement for other painkillers and has high patient satisfaction in this randomized, unblinded, controlled study.
The results of this study suggest that OCD patients with a comorbid chronic tic disorder constitute a clinically meaningful subtype of OCD that might require conjoint serotonin-uptake inhibitor/neuroleptic therapy for effective symptom reduction.
Methylphenidate and clonidine (particularly in combination) are effective for ADHD in children with comorbid tics. Prior recommendations to avoid methylphenidate in these children because of concerns of worsening tics are unsupported by this trial.
Findings suggest that massage is a cost-effective nursing intervention that can decrease pain and anxiety during labour, and partners' participation in massage can positively influence the quality of women's birth experiences.
Both intensity and unpleasantness of the noxious stimuli are reduced during the hypnotic state. In addition, hypnotic modulation of pain is mediated by the anterior cingulate cortex.
This study will support a rigorous test of the intervention package.
Peer education appears to be an effective means of achieving an increase in fruit and vegetable intake among lower socioeconomic, multicultural adult employees.
Dietary changes to prevent cancer can be achieved and sustained in this hard-to-reach, low-income population. However, many obstacles must be overcome to achieve such changes.
A brief educational intervention by GPs can induce multiple diet changes that may lower BMI and potentially reduce chronic disease risk in generally healthy adults.
Nutrition education can be an effective tool for improving diets, but behavioral characteristics deserve greater attention in helping to design the most effective approaches for various target groups.
The Rural Physician Cancer Prevention Project provides an effective model for achieving public health-level dietary health behavior changes among a rural, minority, and low-literacy/low-education population.
These process data suggest that the brief PCP diet-health endorsement contributed to the intervention effect on fruits and vegetables.
Motivational interviewing appears to be a promising strategy for modifying dietary behavior, and Black churches are an excellent setting to implement and evaluate health promotion programs.
This intervention is an effective way to increase fruit and vegetable consumption by young adults.
The low-cost nutritional intervention programme improved serum lipids profile and weight control, and appeared to be feasible for use at a primary health-care centre in a developing country.
A highly optimized PES device successfully attenuated knee OA symptoms in patients who had failed non-surgical therapy. Less than 250 hours of therapy provided relief, but improvement increased in a dose-response manner after 750 hours of cumulative use.
Traditional Chinese manual acupuncture on the body has no additional value to standard poststroke motor rehabilitation.
TJ-9 helped to prevent the development of HCC in patients with cirrhosis, particularly in patients without HBs antigen.
Chinese medicinal herbs are not recommended for chronic hepatitis B because of the publication bias and low quality of the trials. Rigorously designed, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials are needed.
These results support a beneficial effect of 15,000 IU/d of vitamin A and suggest an adverse effect of 400 IU/d of vitamin E on the course of retinitis pigmentosa.
Short-term vision improvements after lutein supplementation--previously reported in age-related macular degeneration--also occur in RP, especially in blue-eyed individuals; vitamin A may increase visual field benefits.
Prolonged daily consumption of <7500 RE (<25000 IU) vitamin A/d can be considered safe in this age group.
Analysing the IS/OS with OCT and the amplitudes of fERG may be helpful for monitoring RP patients in addition to VA and VF.
Otikon, an ear drop formulation of naturopathic origin, is as effective as Anaesthetic ear drops and was proven appropriate for the management of AOM-associated ear pain.
These findings point to the emergence of a generation of Australian children who are generally well vaccinated and are less likely to present to GPs with "traditional" childhood illnesses.
There was a slight increase in the percentage of children with AOM who were prescribed antibiotics in the ED between 1996 and 2005. There was also no change in the patterns of prescribing antibiotics.
Lowering serum cholesterol through modified diets or medications does not reduce stroke mortality or morbidity in middle-aged men. Clofibrate appears to increase the risk for fatal strokes, but the mechanism for this effect is unknown.
This study did not find evidence to support the superiority of acupuncture compared with sham acupuncture in the treatment of IBS.
The anterior "hemi-clamshell" approach is a successful technique for the exposure and resection of these tumors and invaded structures. Release of symptoms and long-term survival is acceptable if complete resection can be performed.
Acupuncture seems to be effective in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome and merits further study.
The properties of the FDDQL questionnaire, available in French, English, and German, make it appropriate for use in clinical trials designed to evaluate its responsiveness to treatment among patients with dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome.
Antidepressants are effective in the treatment of IBS. There is less high-quality evidence for routine use of psychological therapies in IBS, but available data suggest these may be of comparable efficacy.
Gut-directed hypnotherapy is an effective treatment alternative for patients with refractory IBS, but the effectiveness is lower when the therapy is given outside the highly specialized research centers.
The economic impact of IBS is significant. A better understanding of the determinants of these costs is needed so that cost-saving strategies can be implemented.
In conclusion, our results do not provide evidence for a positive association between cognitive performance at 7 y and LCPUFA status at birth or at 7 y of age.
There is a dose-response effect of fish oil on blood pressure of -0.66/-0.35 mm Hg/g omega-3 fatty acids. The hypotensive effect may be strongest in hypertensive subjects and those with clinical atherosclerotic disease or hypercholesterolemia.
No evidence was found for the efficacy of adding E-EPA to antidepressants in reducing depressive symptoms in diabetic patients with co-morbid depression.
Anxiety may have important prognostic implications on subsequent response to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, such as escitalopram.
Supplemental use of omega-3 fatty acids decreases depressive symptoms in hemodialysis patients apart from their anti-inflammatory effects.
In the present 8 week trial EPA and fluoxetine had equal therapeutic effects in major depressive disorder. EPA + fluoxetine combination was superior to either of them alone.
This trial failed to show a significant effect of DHA monotherapy in subjects with major depression.
Neither EPA-enriched nor DHA-enriched n-3 was superior to placebo for the treatment of MDD.
EPA demonstrated an advantage over placebo that did not reach statistical significance, possibly due to the small sample and low completer rates, which were the major study limitations.
It is not possible to distinguish whether E-EPA augments antidepressant action in the manner of lithium or has independent antidepressant properties of its own.
n-3 PUFAs demonstrated an advantage over placebo that did not reach clinical significance, although CGI-I score was significantly decreased in the n-3 PUFA group as compared with the placebo group.
n-3 PUFA supplementation ameliorates symptoms in elderly depression. The n-3 PUFA status may be monitored by means of the determination of whole blood AA/EPA ratio.
Adjunctive ethyl-EPA is an effective and well-tolerated intervention in bipolar depression.
Lower plasma EFA levels combined with low cholesterol concentrations were associated with self-harm as well as impulsivity and affect. This was not related to platelet serotonergic measures.
The use of omega-3 PUFA is effective in patients with diagnosis of MDD and on depressive patients without diagnosis of MDD.
Dietary intake of omega-3 fatty acids showed no association with low mood level.
This study did not find overall evidence of efficacy for adjunctive treatment with EPA 6 g/day in outpatients with bipolar depression or rapid cycling bipolar disorder.
These findings suggest that RBC membranes in depressive patients show evidence of oxidative damage. Possible interpretations, and implications for the etiology and treatment of depression, are discussed.
Several potential neuroprotective compounds, representing a wide range of mechanisms, are available and merit further investigation in PD.
Menaquinone supplementation dose-dependently decreases dp-ucMGP concentrations, but does not affect other MGP species. Dp-ucMGP may serve as a non-invasive marker of vitamin K status.
Vitamin K supplementation for 36 months at doses attainable in the diet may reduce progression of insulin resistance in older men.
A high intake of menoquinones, especially MK-7, MK-8 and MK-9, could protect against CHD. However, more research is necessary to define optimal intake levels of vitamin K intake for the prevention of CHD.
Field initiation of Mg sulfate in acute stroke patients is feasible and safe. Prehospital trial conduct substantially reduces on-scene to needle time and permits hyperacute delivery of neuroprotective therapy.
Moderate dietary restriction of sodium has a definite hypotensive effect, which may be useful in mild hypertension of type II diabetes.
In type 2 diabetic patients, charge selectivity is lost before size selectivity as diabetic nephropathy progresses.
The early administration of antioxidant supplementation using alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid reduces the incidence of organ failure and shortens ICU length of stay in this cohort of critically ill surgical patients.
Smoking and excessive weight gain are risk factors for CAP among men and women, and physical activity was inversely associated with risk of CAP only among women. The incidence of CAP could possibly be decreased by lifestyle factors.
Outpatient use of IMN resulted in shorter admission to delivery interval, and was associated with less prostaglandin use and lower incidence of uterine tachysystole.
Weekly out-patient cervical ripening using either prostaglandin gel or estrogen in women with an unfavorable cervix at 37 weeks' gestation was no more effective than a placebo in Bishop score improvement or in preventing post-date inductions.
Induction of labour is facilitated in term women with prior caesarean section by the use of mifepristone. This induction agent appears safe and useful with no adverse events on the fetus or mother.
Daily membrane stripping or daily placement of prostaglandin gel is successful in reducing the number of inductions at 42 weeks for postdatism.
Outpatient low-dose prostaglandin E2 gel administration is effective for initiating labor in patients with an unfavorable cervix and appears safe if performed with adequate monitoring.
Labor induction rates are highly variable among and within hospitals. Delivery volume, population risk status, and differences in cesarean section rates did not explain this variation.
The reduction in the risk of progressive retinopathy and nephropathy resulting from intensive therapy in patients with type 1 diabetes persists for at least four years, despite increasing hyperglycemia.
Both intervention groups showed reductions in depression scores across the study period, but the massage group did better on some indices. They also had somewhat better interactions with their infants at one year, but these effects were limited.
Although all patients experienced some benefit, hydrotherapy produced the greatest improvements. This study, therefore, provides some justification for the continued use of hydrotherapy.
Manganese and lithium may play a role in the effectiveness of balneotherapy with Dead Sea bath salt for psoriasis.
Controlled trials of floatation spa therapy for patients with osteoarthritis are warranted.
The results suggest that spa therapy may be a powerful tool in enhancing well-being in progressed middle aged adults with common health impairments.
Aquatic exercise had a small but statistically significant short-term effect on locomotor diseases. However, the effectiveness of balneotherapy in curing disease or improving health remains unclear.
Maternal morbidity is extensive and under-recognised after delivery. Measures to reduce and alleviate it must be sought.
Postnatal sexual problems are common. Health professionals ought to educate and prepare patients antenatally; be trained to identify problems; and be competent to deal with them openly and sympathetically.
If found to be efficacious in randomized trials, vitamin D supplementation could prove to be an inexpensive method of reducing the burden of HIV infection and death among children, particularly in resource-limited settings.
Selenium therapy may be a beneficial treatment to decrease anxiety in HIV+ drug users who exhibit a high prevalence of psychological burden.
A 50 g daily nutritional supplement to breastfeeding mothers had no or limited effect on mother and child health outcomes.
This finding suggested that preoperative melatonin produced clinically relevant anxiolytic and analgesic effects, especially in the first 24 postoperative hours. Also, it improved the recovery of the potency of the rest/activity circadian rhythm.
Melatonin is an effective premedication before IVRA since it reduced patient anxiety, decreased tourniquet-related pain, and improved perioperative analgesia.
Melatonin premedication significantly decreased the doses of both propofol and thiopental required to induce anesthesia.
Preoperative oral melatonin administration decreased pain scores and tramadol consumption and enhanced sleep quality, sedation scores, and subjective analgesic efficacy during the postoperative period.
There is no evidence that melatonin is effective in treating secondary sleep disorders or sleep disorders accompanying sleep restriction, such as jet lag and shiftwork disorder. There is evidence that melatonin is safe with short term use.
Focusing on the timely, formal delivery of information about anaesthesia management, emphasizing the notion of 'controlled unconsciousness' and dispelling misconceptions associated with general anaesthesia may help to limit patient anxiety.
Our results suggest CoQ may be safely offered to hypertensive patients as an alternative treatment option.
These results show that CoQ supplementation may improve blood pressure and long-term glycaemic control in subjects with type 2 diabetes, but these improvements were not associated with reduced oxidative stress, as assessed by F2-isoprostanes.
One dose of CoQ10 does not have any effect on ECG variables and exhibits only mild and transient effect on systolic blood pressure in young, healthy people.
Zinc-ORS was moderately efficacious in reducing the severity of acute diarrhea without increasing vomiting or reducing ORS intake.
Young infants do not appear to benefit from zinc supplementation for the treatment of diarrhea.
Three Recommended Daily Allowances of zinc given daily by caretakers or by field workers substantially reduced the duration of diarrhea. The effect of zinc was not dependent on or enhanced by concomitant vitamin A administration.
Zinc supplementation had positive, nil, or negative effects depending on pathological condition, and the effects were different for boys than for girls.
Although micronutrient deficiency is predictive of early death in Zambian patients with the diarrhoea-wasting syndrome, short-term oral supplementation does not overcome it nor influence morbidity or mortality.
Zinc supplementation reduces the duration and severity of acute and persistent diarrhea; however, the mechanisms by which zinc exerts its antidiarrheal effect have not been fully elucidated.
Zinc supplementation reduced the hospitalizations which probably reflect severity of morbidity, but did not improve growth.
Early intervention with a standardized formulation of echinacea resulted in reduced symptom severity in subjects with naturally acquired upper respiratory tract infection. Further studies with larger patient populations appear to be warranted.
Treatment with Echinacea Plus tea at early onset of cold or flu symptoms was effective for relieving these symptoms in a shorter period of time than a placebo.
Echinacea purpurea, as dosed in this study, was not effective in treating URI symptoms in patients 2 to 11 years old, and its use was associated with an increased risk of rash.
Echinacea purpurea may be effective in reducing the occurrence of subsequent URIs in children. However this finding needs to be replicated in a URI prevention trial.
This structured review suggests that the possible therapeutic effectiveness of echinacea in the treatment of colds has not been established.
Echinacea from retail stores often does not contain the labeled species. A claim of "standardization" does not mean the preparation is accurately labeled, nor does it indicate less variability in concentration of constituents of the herb.
JTK might improve the sensitivity to insulin and decrease the blood viscosity in NIDDM.
XZT could improve the erythrocyte deformability in the type 2 diabetes.
Ginseng may be a useful therapeutic adjunct in the management of NIDDM.
It suggested that the treatment of SHJT recipe might decrease insulin peripheral resistance (partial reversal) by means of reducing hyperinsulinemia and improving insulin sensitivity.
Oolong tea may be an effective adjunct to oral hypoglycemic agents in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Although the responder analysis failed to show an effect of the herbal tea, the data suggest there may be a short-term benefit from the tea in subjects with poor glycemic control.
These results show that treatment with silymarin may reduce the lipoperoxidation of cell membranes and insulin resistance, significantly decreasing endogenous insulin overproduction and the need for exogenous insulin administration.
American ginseng attenuated postprandial glycemia in both study groups. For nondiabetic subjects, to prevent unintended hypoglycemia it may be important that the American ginseng be taken with the meal.
The ISBP program can be judged successful because both the patients and their doctors perceive their interactions as more efficient, less time time-consuming and more satisfying.
The study provided a detailed description of pruritus in atopic dermatitis with new data on affective and sensory dimensions and associated symptoms. The questionnaire was found to be a useful tool in characterization of itch.
Compared with the standard regimen, once-per-week dosing worsened, and higher doses did not reduce, vitamin A deficiency. Therefore, the standard regimen is recommended.
Oral supplementation with 5000 IU vitamin A in extremely low birthweight infants does not significantly alter the incidence of chronic lung disease. However, this dose may have been inadequate to achieve optimal serum retinol concentrations.
Neonatal vitamin A supplementation may reduce the infant mortality rate and the prevalence of severe respiratory infection among young infants.
Serum melatonin levels decreased in children with epilepsy or CFS. Supplement of exogenous melatonin might be a promising treatment for epilepsy and febrile seizures in children.
The study suggests that melatonin exerts antioxidant activity in patients with epilepsy receiving CBZ therapy.
The hypothesis may be formed that a lowered level of melatonin in the study group in relation to the comparison group is the consequence of the natural course of epilepsy or is influenced by antiepileptic drugs.
Our results suggest that iron ion generates oxygen free radical species that induce neuronal macromolecular peroxidation and seizure, and that melatonin inhibits iron-induced seizures by scavenging free radicals.
Acupuncture proved to be adequate for migraine prophylaxis. Relative to flunarizine, acupuncture treatment exhibited greater effectiveness in the first months of therapy and superior tolerability.
TA was the only treatment able to provide a steady outcome improvement in comparison to the use of only Rizatriptan, while RMA showed a transient placebo effect at T1.
Acupuncture leads to persisting, clinically relevant benefits for primary care patients with chronic headache, particularly migraine. Expansion of NHS acupuncture services should be considered.
In this trial acupuncture and sumatriptan were more effective than a placebo injection in the early treatment of an acute migraine attack. When an attack could not be prevented, sumatriptan was more effective than acupuncture at relieving headache.
Acupuncture proved a highly demanded treatment option for chronic pain conditions within the German research program. Results indicate that acupuncture provided by qualified therapists is safe, and patients benefited from the treatment.
We conclude that intranasal capsaicin seems safe to use and that five treatments of capsaicin on a single day is at least as effective as five treatments of capsaicin in 2 weeks.
Non-allergic asthma accounts for two in every five cases of asthma in adults and constitutes symptomatically, and in terms of lung function, a more severe form of disease than allergic asthma.
Allergic rhinitis causes considerable suffering. Cetirizine, with a fine risk-benefit ratio, can be a most valuable therapeutic option.
Despite the limitations of this small study, the findings suggest that the management of these referrals is highly complex. A dietitian's input should ensure that the nutritional adequacy of the diet is maintained or restored.
Four months of CrM supplementation led to increases in FFM and handgrip strength in the dominant hand and a reduction in a marker of bone breakdown and was well tolerated in children with DD.
These findings suggest that acute CrM administration does not affect blood pressure, renal function, or plasma CK activity, but increases FFM. The effect of CrM upon FFM may be greater in men as compared with that in women.
Neither short-term, medium-term, nor long-term oral creatine supplements induce detrimental effects on the kidney of healthy individuals.
The same TENS protocol had different degrees of antinociceptive influence on chronic and acute pain in chronic low back pain patients.
In this sham-controlled study, PENS was more effective than TENS or exercise therapy in providing short-term pain relief and improved physical function in patients with long-term LBP.
The findings showed that IFT electrode placement technique affects LBP-specific functional disability, providing preliminary implications for future clinical studies.
About one fourth of U.S. adults report low back pain in the past 3 months; the proportion of physician visits attributed to back pain has changed little in the past decade.
The retrieval of studies of important clinical topics cited in MEDLINE can be substantially enhanced by selected combinations of indexing terms and textwords.
People with acute low back pain and associated disability usually improve rapidly within weeks. None the less, pain and disability are typically ongoing, and recurrences are common.
The CAS-P assesses distinct components of aggressive behavior and may fill a gap in that it distinguishes among various types and severity of aggressive behaviors, and the settings in which they take place.
The CAS-T may fill a gap in that it distinguishes among various types and severity of aggression, as distinct from oppositional-defiant behaviors.
A group mindfulness meditation training program can effectively reduce symptoms of anxiety and panic and can help maintain these reductions in patients with generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder, or panic disorder with agoraphobia.
The ADHD Impact Module meets stringent psychometric standards. Further validation is required, but current evidence suggests it is a promising new questionnaire.
This study provides preliminary data for a subsequent randomized control trial to test mind/body-based interventions to determine the most effective outcomes at an affordable cost.
A multidimensional intervention based on integrative medicine principles reduced risk of CHD, possibly by increasing exercise and improving weight loss.
The yoga treatment and study procedures were feasible for midlife women. Improvement in symptom perceptions and well being warrant further study of yoga for menopausal symptoms, with a larger number of women and including a control group.
Both types of breathing exercises benefit patients with hypertension. However, improvement in both the sympathetic and parasympathetic reactivity may be the mechanism that is associated in those practicing the slow-breathing exercise.
Seven (7) days of a residential intensive yoga-based lifestyle program reduced pain-related disability and improved spinal flexibility in patients with CLBP better than a physical exercise regimen.
The improved level of infection, radiographic picture, FVC, weight gain and reduced symptoms in the yoga group suggest a complementary role for yoga in the management of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Light or moderate activity in men with established CHD is associated with a significantly lower risk of all-cause mortality. Regular walking and moderate or heavy gardening were sufficient to achieve this benefit.
These data from a large trial of apparently healthy female health professionals with 9.7 years of treatment and follow-up indicate that 600 IU natural-source vitamin E taken every other day provides no benefit for age-related cataract or subtypes.
These randomized trial data from a large population of apparently healthy female health professionals indicate that two years of beta-carotene treatment has no large beneficial or harmful effect on the development of cataract during the treatment period.
Lens events were less common in participants who took the multivitamin/mineral formulation, but treatment had opposite effects on the development or progression of nuclear and PSC opacities, the 2 most visually important opacity subtypes.
These data suggest that men who took multivitamin supplements tended to experience a decreased risk of cataract and support the need for rigorous testing of this hypothesis in large-scale randomized trials in men and women.
The nucleus of the lens is particularly sensitive to nutrient deficiencies. Protein, vitamin A, niacin, thiamin, and riboflavin protected against nuclear cataract in this study.
The proportion of the Medicare population receiving eye care increased between 1991 and 1998. Nevertheless, eye care costs did not increase, primarily because of constraints in charges associated with the management of cataract.
Vitamin E has a protective effect on radiation-induced cataract by decreasing oxidative stress.
Low serum concentrations of the antioxidant vitamins alpha tocopherol and beta carotene are risk factors for end stage senile cataract. Controlled trials of the role of antioxidant vitamins in cataract prevention are therefore warranted.
Our results support a role for vitamin C in diminishing the risk of cortical cataracts in women aged <60 y and for carotenoids in diminishing the risk of PSC cataracts in women who have never smoked.
Dietary vitamin C intake might lower the risk of age-related cataracts among middle-aged Japanese.
These data imply that HCSE is superior to placebo and as effective as reference medications in alleviating the objective signs and subjective symptoms of CVI. Thus, HCSE represents a treatment option for CVI that is worth considering.
The effects of BGSSC on primary OP included increasing patient's bone mineral density, depressing bone resorption and decreasing bone loss.
The data from the present experiment suggest that NMDA antagonists may not only antagonize the neurotoxic effect of excitatory amino acid on ischemic neuron but also improve the CBF of ischemic brain.
Further works should finally provide all those interested with a more complete and thorough set of guidelines based on the best evidence available.
The management of the inspiratory muscle strength should be considered in the pulmonary rehabilitation at cervical SCI patients.
Supplementation of alpha-tocopherol and ascorbic acid attenuates the ribavirin-induced decrease of EPA in erythrocyte membrane phospholipids in chronic hepatitis C patients.
In this randomized study carried out on 120 patients with chronic hepatitis C not responsive to alpha-interferon, oral supplementation with N-acetyl cysteine and vitamin E did not improve the poor efficacy of retreatment with alpha-interferon alone.
Vitamin E treatment improves serum hyaluronic acid but has no beneficial effects on tests of liver function in patients with mild to moderate alcoholic hepatitis.
Ascorbic acid was not considered to be useful for the prevention of the retinopathy associated with IFN therapy in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Although oral antioxidant supplementation appears to be safe, we could not find any evidence for a beneficial effect on fatigue or other liver-related symptoms.
Vitamin E supplementation alone during standard alpha-interferon and ribavirin therapy does not appear to diminish ribavirin-associated haemolysis.
Antioxidant therapy, alone or in combination with corticosteroids, does not improve 6-month survival in severe alcoholic hepatitis.
The findings from this study indicate that preoperative administration of vitamin E is safe and that this treatment may have beneficial effects by reducing the impact of I/R injury in liver surgery.
Two years of treatment with UDCA in combination with vitamin E improved laboratory values and hepatic steatosis of patients with NASH. Larger trials are warranted.
Although the present data seem to suggest a potential supportive role of antioxidants/immunomodulators as FPP in HCV patients, more studies are needed to substantiate their effect on the natural history of the disease.
This study has shown that corticosteroids in the form of prednisolone 30 mg daily are superior to a broad antioxidant cocktail in the treatment of severe alcoholic hepatitis.
We could not find evidence that the studied antioxidant supplements prevented gastrointestinal cancers. On the contrary, they seem to increase overall mortality.
Industry funding of nutrition-related scientific articles may bias conclusions in favor of sponsors' products, with potentially significant implications for public health.
The six-week low-intensity ultrasound therapy had no effect on radiological bone morphology, bone mineral density or clinical outcome in bioabsorbable screw-fixed lateral malleolar fractures 18 months after the injury.
Light visors can be effectively used to prevent the development of SAD. The fact that exposure to infrared light was as effective as exposure to bright white light questions the specific role of visible light in the treatment of SAD.
It is possible to prevent recurrence of seasonal major depressive episodes by beginning bupropion treatment early in the season while patients are still well.
This psychometric evaluation provides empirical support for the reliability and validity of the LIFE-RIFT, a brief measure of functional impairment.
The results of this study suggest that seasonal depression may be effectively and safely treated with agomelatine.
There was no evidence that an individualized prenatal education and support program, when offered to all women with previous cesarean delivery, results in a clinically significant increase in the rate of vaginal birth after cesarean section.
The program was accompanied by a significant decrease in the cesarean section rate. Rural hospitals with facilities and personnel for emergency cesarean sections should consider the introduction of a similar program.
The reported figures represent an unnecessary increased risk for young women and their babies. From the economic perspective, this is a burden to health systems that work with limited budgets.
In this open prospective trial, cognitive behavioral therapy was associated with a reduction in dissociative seizure frequency and an improvement in psychosocial functioning in adults with dissociative seizures.
Our findings suggest that cognitive-behavioral therapy is more effective than standard medical care alone in reducing seizure frequency in PNES patients.
Psychosocial stress is common among children with nonepileptic seizures. Confirmatory diagnosis by video EEG, along with prompt psychosocial intervention, often results in a favorable outcome for most children with nonepileptic seizures.
Early referral to mental health professional is required to avoid unnecessary investigations and delay in diagnosis of somatoform disorders in children.
Moderate-large effect sizes support the hypothesis that PCPs can effectively treat somatization. This points to the importance of performing a full RCT.
CBT-based GSH is feasible to implement and efficacious. Further evaluation is indicated.
Vacuum IFC is a non-invasive and effective therapy for functional dyspepsia. Transcutaneous electrical stimulation may represent a new treatment modality for drug-refractory functional dyspepsia patients.
Reflection on the pilot study data and experience by participants, treating practitioners and researchers led to modifications in the design and a sample size calculation. How to demonstrate individual responses to treatment remains a problem.
Itopride significantly improves symptoms in patients with functional dyspepsia. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The results suggest that a low plasma AA level might be associated (pathogenetic?) with development of microangiopathy in type 1 diabetes mellitus and points to a possible treatment modality.
Sport teams are effective natural vehicles for gender-specific, peer-led curricula to promote healthy lifestyles and to deter disordered eating, athletic-enhancing substance use, and other health-harming behaviors.
This study suggests that dietary supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids has a beneficial effect on symptoms of dysmenorrhea in adolescents.
Supplementing infant formula with GOS at a concentration of 0.24 g/dl stimulates the growth of Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli in the intestine and stool characteristics are similar to in term infants fed with human milk.
A supplementation of low levels of GOS in infant formula seemed to improve stool frequency, decrease faecal pH, and stimulate intestinal bifidobacteria and lactobacilli up to levels as found in breast-fed infants.
Prebiotic administration reduce intestinal and, possibly, respiratory infections in healthy infants during the first year of age.
Infant formula supplemented with 1.5 or 3.0 g/L fructo-oligosaccharides was safe but had minimal effect on fecal flora and C. difficile toxin.
These data indicate that the addition of GOS (5 g/L) to a follow-on formula positively influences the bifidobacteria flora and the stool consistency in infants during the supplementation period at weaning. No local or systemic side effects were recorded.
We conclude that with native inulin a prebiotic effect can be observed in formula-fed babies. Inulin may therefore be a useful ingredient in the formulation of baby formula to enhance the nutritional properties.
No allergy-preventive effect that extended to age 5 years was achieved with perinatal supplementation of probiotic bacteria to high-risk mothers and children. It conferred protection only to cesarean-delivered children.
The starter formula containing BL999 and galacto-oligosaccharides/fructo-oligosaccharides is safe and well-tolerated.
The use of a partially hydrolysed formula supplemented with fructo- and galacto-OS induces a reduction of crying episodes in infants with colic after 7 and 14 days when compared with a standard formula and simethicone.
We conclude that addition of GOS/FOS to solid foods induces an increase in the faecal proportion of bifidobacteria in the intestinal microbiota of fully formula-fed infants with an established, mixed-type microbiota in the weaning period.
Infants receiving PBP were more likely to become colonized with bifidobacteria. No significant differences in weight gain or stool SCFA content were detected.
Enteral glutamine supplementation in VLBW infants does not alter plasma concentrations of glutamine, glutamate or other amino acids. Enteral supplementation in a dose of 0.3 g/kg per day seems safe in VLBW infants.
We hypothesize that glutamine-enriched enteral nutrition decreases the infection rate in VLBW infants by influencing the mucosal and not the systemic immune system.
Maternal smoking in pregnancy increases the risk of asthma during the first 7 years of life, and only a small fraction of the effect seems to be mediated through fetal growth.
Among children at high risk of developing atopic disease, late prematurity might be an important additional determinant of asthma later in life, and these effects are gender specific.
When compared with a standard infant formula, the new formula supported satisfactory growth, led to higher counts of bifidobacteria in the feces, produced blood bio-chemical values typical of formula-fed infants, and was well tolerated.
Lactobacillus GG seems to be effective and safe for maintaining remission in patients with ulcerative colitis, and it could represent a good therapeutic option for preventing relapse in this group of patients.
This is the first pediatric, randomized, placebo-controlled trial that suggests the efficacy and safety of a highly concentrated mixture of probiotic bacterial strains (VSL#3) in active UC and demonstrates its role in maintenance of remission.
This study showed that administration of BIO-THREE improved the clinical symptoms and endoscopic findings in patients with UC, indicating that administration of BIO-THREE is safe and efficacious for the treatment of UC.
LP299/OF, when administered after TNBS instillation, does not reduce the severity of colitis or improve gut permeability in this hapten model of colitis.
Oral administration of VSL#3 was effective as primary therapy in IL-10 gene-deficient mice, and had a direct effect on epithelial barrier function.
Pain is an inordinately common and disabling condition in the US workforce. Most of the pain-related lost productive time occurs while employees are at work and is in the form of reduced performance.
The results of this study emphasize the need to evaluate further and improve the dissemination of findings regarding the effectiveness of specific physiotherapy approaches for low back pain management.
Physical modalities used by chiropractors in this managed-care organization did not appear to be effective in the treatment of patients with LBP, although a small short-term benefit for some patients cannot be ruled out.
Manipulative therapy and physiotherapy are better than general practitioner and placebo treatment. Furthermore, manipulative therapy is slightly better than physiotherapy after 12 months.
These findings suggest that ultrasound is a useful and highly acceptable tool for bone age determination in clinical routine or screening studies and will help to reduce ionizing radiation to children and adolescents.
Patients with lumbar spinal stenosis can benefit from physical therapy. Additional gains may be realized with the inclusion of manual physical therapy interventions, exercise, and a progressive body-weight supported treadmill walking program.
The OMT regimen met or exceeded the Cochrane Back Review Group criterion for a medium effect size in relieving chronic low back pain. It was safe, parsimonious, and well accepted by patients.
Both MSS and Activity sessions appear to be effective and appropriate therapies for people with dementia.
Overall, MSS was found to be no more effective than an activity in changing the behaviour, mood or cognition of patients with dementia in the short- or long-term.
We found no evidence of a beneficial effect of vitamin A for the treatment of RSV infection in children in the United States. There may be groups of children for which vitamin A has an adverse effect, resulting in longer hospital stays.
If vitamin A has a beneficial effect on the course of RSV disease, it may be seen only in more severely ill children.
Vitamin A supplementation improves the linear growth of children who have a low intake of vitamin A but this impact is muted with increasing levels of respiratory infections.
Because both agents found to be effective in prevention of recurrent febrile seizures have known adverse effects, prophylaxis of febrile seizures cannot be recommended.
Zinc supplementation (5 mg/d) for eight weeks may reverse some of the poor behaviours, particularly responsiveness, exhibited by low birth weight infants. No amelioration of their mental and psychomotor deficits was found.
Zinc supplementation may have a beneficial effect on mental development and motor quality behavior of healthy term infants.
Micronutrient supplementation in infants at high risk for iron deficiency and iron deficiency anemia was related to increased night sleep duration and less night waking.
Omega-3 fatty acids are likely to be an effective treatment for hypertriglyceridaemia in HIV-infected males on HAART.
Oral nutritional supplements for a 3 month period were well tolerated and resulted in body weight gain in HIV-infected patients. Supplement-enriched formula, with peptides and n-3 fatty acids, increased CD4 count.
Fish oil was safe when administered alone or combined with fenofibrate and significantly reduced TG levels in HIV-infected subjects with hypertriglyceridemia.
Caloric supplements do not promote increases in average weight or body cell mass in weight-stable, HIV-infected adults beyond that offered by a multivitamin and mineral supplement.
Enrichment of an oral nutritive supplement with arginine and omega-3 fatty acids did not improve immunological parameters. However, body weight increased in both groups.
Home-based therapy with RTUF was successful in affecting complete catch-up growth. In this study, locally produced and imported RTUF were similar in efficacy in treating of severe childhood malnutrition.
In addition to patient characteristics, medication-related variables, and reasons for nonadherence, patient-reported symptoms and medication side effects were significantly associated with adherence to HAART.
In patients with HIV infection, total energy expenditure is reduced during episodes of weight loss. Reduced energy intake, not elevated energy expenditure, is the prime determinant of weight loss in HIV-associated wasting.
In patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B, staggered combination treatment with pegylated interferon-alpha2b and lamivudine may lead to a higher rate of virologic response than lamivudine monotherapy.
Treatment with VSL#3 is effective in the prevention of the onset of acute pouchitis and improves quality of life of patients with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis.
Our preliminary results suggest that S. boulardii can be effective in the treatment of ulcerative colitis. Controlled studies with this probiotic agent are warranted.
Among the intestinal bacteria tested, H. muridarum can serve as a provocateur of IBD in this model.
These results suggested that 'yi qi tiao xue, fu ben pei yuan' acupuncture method had significant therapeutic effects and well tolerated in ameliorate the key clinical symptoms of VaD.
Cardiovascular disease risk factors may be modifiable predictors of dementia associated with cerebral infarction. Additional well-designed epidemiologic studies are needed to clarify these associations.
We should continue to support efforts directed at primary stroke prevention and the brain-at-risk and predementia stages. Additional rigorous epidemiological study is needed to clarify risk factors for dementia associated with stroke.
It is concluded that the PSYRATS are useful assessment instruments and can complement existing measures.
US treatment could increase the effectiveness of isokinetic exercise for functional improvement of knee OA, and pulsed ultrasound has a greater effect than continuous US.
Both therapeutic modalities were found to be effective and generally well tolerated after 10 therapy sessions. Ibuprofen PH was not superior to conventional ultrasound in patients with knee osteoarthritis.
Large-scale, methodologically sound trials indicate that the symptomatic benefit of chondroitin is minimal or nonexistent. Use of chondroitin in routine clinical practice should therefore be discouraged.
Ultrasound demonstrates the ability to evoke a broad range of therapeutically beneficial effects which may provide safe and effective applications in the management of osteoarthritis.
The burden of AUB needs further and more thorough investigation. Additional research should prospectively evaluate the impact of AUB and the value of treatment provided to help guide future health resource allocation and clinical decision-making.
Lifestyle changes and treatment with metformin both reduced the incidence of diabetes in persons at high risk. The lifestyle intervention was more effective than metformin.
The present study shows that prevention against AAD in infants was obtained by oral treatment with daily dose of B. lactis and S. thermophilus.
In our trial, kefir did not prevent AAD. Further independent research on the potential of kefir needs to be conducted.
In children with H pylori infection, supplementation of standard triple therapy with LGG did not significantly alter the eradication rate or side effects.
The results implied that prophylactic use of Saccharomyces boulardii resulted in reduced, with no serious side effects, antibiotic-associated diarrhea in hospitalized patients.
The addition of Will yogurt to triple therapy did not reduce the side-effects of triple therapy. But it increased the H. pylori eradication rate by PP analysis, encouraging more research in this field.
Clostridium butyricum MIYAIRI is effective for both the treatment and the prophylaxis of AAD in children, as it normalizes the intestinal flora disturbed by antibiotics.
Antibiotic-associated diarrhea was common in these outpatient children, especially for those aged less than 2 years and after the prescription of certain antibiotics, particularly, the combination of amoxicillin/clavulanate.
Acupuncture applied to tender points appears to have short-term effects on neck and shoulder pain and stiffness, but this study was unable to demonstrate any long-term superiority over sham acupuncture.
The commercially available herbal preparation STW 5 and its research preparation STW 5-II are both effective in alleviating irritable bowel syndrome symptoms.
Padma Lax is a safe and effective treatment for constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome and may offer an alternative to the current multi drug approach.
IBS is perceived as a chronic condition resulting in frustration and social isolation, and physicians are perceived to be providing inadequate medical information or support to patients with IBS.
The trial seems to exclude a clinically significant effect of 15-30 mg cisapride daily in patients with IBS and constipation during a 12-week treatment period.
These results do not support a withdrawal alleviation model. Differences in the patterns of responses to caffeine by habitual consumers and habitual non-consumers may go some way to explaining why some individuals become caffeine consumers.
These results support the hypothesis that the psychostimulant and related effects of caffeine are due largely to withdrawal reversal.
Moderate doses of caffeine and taurine can improve information processing in individuals who could not have been in caffeine withdrawal.
Treatment with oral citicoline within the first 24 hours after onset in patients with moderate to severe stroke increases the probability of complete recovery at 3 months.
An SB-supplemented formula is well tolerated by preterm infants, it has a beneficial effect on stool flora bringing it closer to that of breast fed babies but it does not improve D-xylose or lipid gut absorption.
B breve can colonise the immature bowel very effectively and is associated with fewer abnormal abdominal signs and better weight gain in VLBW infants, probably as a result of stabilisation of their intestinal flora and accelerated feeding schedules.
Orally administered L. casei subspecies rhamnosus significantly reduces the incidence and the intensity of enteric colonization by Candida species among very low birth weight neonates.
Supplementation with BB536-LGG may not improve the gastrointestinal tolerance to enteral feeding in very-low-birth-weight infants but may improve gastrointestinal tolerance in infants weighing >1000 g. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
The gut of extremely low birthweight infants is colonised by a paucity of bacterial species. Breast milking and reduction of antibiotic exposure are critical to increasing fecal microbial diversity.
As mortality among low-birth weight infants continues to decline and smaller newborns survive early causes of death, necrotizing enterocolitis-associated infant mortality may increase.
Results suggest that among our recovered participants, early age of onset is associated with shorter time to relapse, more residual symptoms over the follow-up, and a stable and linear course of residual symptoms during the 2-year follow-up.
High intake of fats and low intake of foods with high concentration of carbohydrate may be associated with premenstrual symptoms.
GnRHa appear to be an effective treatment in the management of premenstrual syndrome. The addition of hormonal add-back therapy to reduce side effects does not reduce efficacy.
High-dose vitamin D (approximately 10,000 IU/day) in multiple sclerosis is safe, with evidence of immunomodulatory effects.
Oral calcitriol is safe and well tolerated for up to one year by diet compliant relapsing-remitting MS patients. Further study of vitamin D related mechanisms is warranted in MS.
Once-yearly intramuscular cholecalciferol injection (600 000 IU) is effective therapy for vitamin D deficiency. While this therapy appears to be safe, the potential for developing hypercalciuria needs to be examined in a large randomised controlled trial.
In this exploratory study, mortality from multiple sclerosis, unlike mortality from skin cancer, was negatively associated with both residential and occupational exposure to sunlight.
The combination of nicotinamide and tetracycline appears to be a useful alternative to systemic steroids in the treatment of bullous pemphigoid.
We conclude that neither azathioprine nor plasma exchange is effective enough to be used routinely as an adjuvant to corticosteroids in the management of bullous pemphigoid.
The prognosis of patients with BP is influenced by age and Karnofsky score. These predictors are easy to use and should facilitate the management of BP.
Topical corticosteroid therapy is effective for both moderate and severe bullous pemphigoid and is superior to oral corticosteroid therapy for extensive disease.
North-east Scotland appears to have a relatively high incidence of BP when compared with incidence rates in continental Europe. The mortality rate in patients with BP is considerable, especially within the first 2 years of diagnosis.
Mortality of patients with BP is more likely related to advanced age and associated medical conditions than to disease-specific factors.
These results support earlier findings of the efficacy of vitamin E in treating tardive dyskinesia.
Vitamin E had a minor beneficial effect on tardive dyskinesia ratings in a selected group of patients who had had tardive dyskinesia for 5 years or less. This effect was not due to an increase in blood levels of neuroleptic medications.
In this study in patients with low back pain, analgesic effect and improvement in QOL were found with the use of GC. GC was well tolerated.
The present data demonstrate an increase of CAM usage from 1990 through 2006 in all countries investigated. We found geographical differences, as well as differences between the general population and medical personnel.
Similar quality of reporting may hide important differences in methodologic quality, and well-conducted trials may be reported badly. A clear distinction should be made between these 2 dimensions of the quality of RCTs.
Administration of vitamin K1 to pregnant women at less than 35 weeks' gestation age may result in improved coagulation and may reduce the incidence as well as the severity degree of PIVH.
Prophylactic application of ointment did not lead to a difference in death and/or NBS in the first 28 days of life. There may be an increase in the risk of NBS associated with this practice.
These studies document that emollient cream moisturizer therapy of premature neonates decreases dermatitis without changing the microbiological flora.
Extensively hydrolyzed formulas are safe and effective for most infants; an amino acid-derived formula may be preferable for infants with multiple food allergies, especially for the maintenance of normal growth.
Smoked and oral cannabinoids did not seem to be unsafe in people with HIV infection with respect to HIV RNA levels, CD4+ and CD8+ cell counts, or protease inhibitor levels over a 21-day treatment.
These data suggest that for HIV-positive marijuana smokers, both dronabinol (at doses 8 times current recommendations) and marijuana were well tolerated and produced substantial and comparable increases in food intake.
In a selected group of HIV-infected patients with weight loss, short-term treatment with dronabinol may result in improvement in nutritional status and symptom distress.
The programme was feasible and acceptable and participants showed improvements in metabolic and psychological variables. A larger controlled trial is now needed to confirm these promising preliminary results.
There are some effective therapies for infant colic, but additional rigorous studies of existing and alternative therapies are needed.
Environmental factors play an important part in determining risk of symptoms in potentially atopic babies. These factors are in principle open to manipulation.
It is suggested that the diets with different protein content used in subjects with CMPA did not determine any difference in the stimulation of proteolytic and lipolytic pancreatic enzymes.
In families with a history of atopic disease [corrected] mothers who breast feed should avoid common allergenic foods during lactation. If they choose not to breast feed a hydrolysate formula should be used.
Exclusive breast-feeding or feeding with a partial whey hydrolysate formula is associated with lower incidence of atopic disease and food allergy. This is a cost-effective approach to the prevention of allergic disease in children.
Special formulas (in particular high-degree protein hydrolysates) should be carefully evaluated when used for prolonged periods of time in healthy infants at familial risk of atopy.
In young children, chronic constipation can be a manifestation of intolerance of cow's milk.
Term infants fed soy protein isolate-based formulas have normal immune development as measured by antibody responses to childhood immunizations.
A treatment program of ES and BFB enhanced PMEs did not affect continence after radical prostatectomy after 3 or 12 months. Up to 711 euro can be saved per patient.
ExMI and FES therapies offered earlier continence compared with the control group after radical prostatectomy. We consider ExMI and FES to be recommendable options for patients who want quick improvement of postoperative urinary incontinence.
Electrical nerve stimulation is effective and safe for overactive bladder. Further studies are needed to show the long term efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
Early, noninvasive physical treatment with biofeedback and pelvic floor electrical stimulation has a significant positive impact on the early recovery of urinary continence after radical prostatectomy.
Electrical stimulation is effective for the treatment of stress incontinence.
Electrical stimulation was useful in treating urinary incontinence due to detrusor overactivity.
Although both treatments were effective, the inhibition of detrusor overactivity appeared greater in the FMS group than in the FES group.
Our conclusion is that, based on the DAI, in the homogeneous set of 68 patients, only FES seemed to be effective.
Percutaneous peripheral afferent nerve stimulation offers a safe, minimally invasive and effective treatment for managing refractive overactive bladder and/or pelvic floor dysfunction.
The good results of the two-stage implant technique we used indicate that the development of better PNE electrodes may lead to an improvement of the testing technique and better selection between nonresponders and technical failures.
Transvaginal pelvic floor electrical stimulation was found to be a safe and effective therapy for genuine stress incontinence.
Options include neuroleptics, triptans, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents, ergots, and intravenous valproic acid. Cluster headaches are best managed with oxygen inhalation, injectable sumatriptan, or dihydroergotamine.
These guidelines are intended to help general practitioners to manage migraine patients according to the rules of evidence-based medicine.
The economic burden of migraine predominantly falls on patients and their employers in the form of bedridden days and lost productivity. Various screening and treatment regimens should be evaluated to identify opportunities to reduce the disease burden.
Our initial analyses suggest nominally significant improvement in cognitive function in schizophrenia with adjunctive therapies such as YT. The magnitude of the change varies by cognitive domain and may also vary by diagnostic group.
Cognitive-behavioural therapy has a therapeutic effect on schizophrenic symptoms in the 'small' range. This reduces further when sources of bias, particularly masking, are controlled for.
Days of normal functioning improved in the CBT condition compared with TAU, but this gain in health was associated with additional societal costs.
Excessive NO produced in brain tissue and insufficient plasma NO participate the course of ischemic brain damage. Ligustrazine could increase the contents of plasma NO selectively.
Budesonide is efficacious in inducing short-term clinical response in CC with significant reduction of the histologic infiltrate in the lamina propria.
Budesonide is a highly effective and well tolerated treatment of collagenous colitis. There is a high risk of relapse after stopping eight weeks of treatment.
Treatment with mesalazine seems to be an effective therapeutic option for LC to date, while mesalazine + cholestyramine seems to be more useful in the treatment of CC.
Our study suggests that BSE might be clinically effective in patients with collagenous colitis. Larger trials are clearly necessary to establish the clinical efficacy of BSE.
Oral budesonide (Entocort capsules) is an effective and safe treatment modality for patients with collagenous colitis. Long-term follow-up of these patients is necessary to investigate whether clinical and histologic remission is sustained.
Budesonide is effective in the treatment of collagenous colitis. Clinical relapses may occur in a considerable number of patients, particularly in those <60 years. Treatment of clinical relapse with budesonide appears to be an effective option.
Oral budesonide 6 mg/d is efficacious and well tolerated for long-term maintenance of clinical remission in patients with collagenous colitis.
Prednisolone 50 mg daily for 2 weeks induces incomplete remission in patients with chronic diarrhoea due to collagenous colitis.
Causes of inducing and amplifying the processes of "remodelling" the gut wall are thought to be unknown, but the results are: altered structure (and function?). All useful observations of this study may enrich the practice and can help these patients.
Collagenous colitis follows a chronic continuous course. Symptoms can be socially disabling, but the disease does not seem to have a malignant potential. A plan for the treatment of a newly diagnosed patient with collagenous colitis is proposed.
Budesonide may be of value in the management of refractory celiac disease.
Bismuth subsalicylate treatment for 8 weeks is safe and well tolerated. This regimen appears to be efficacious for the treatment of microscopic colitis and is worthy of further study in a controlled trial.
The cross-sectional and 1-year intervention results supported each other and underscored the important connection between increased BMI and the development leading toward the insulin resistance syndrome.
HP and HC approaches appear to be appropriate options for insulin-resistant individuals. When recommending HP diets appropriate composition of dietary fat must be ensured. HC diet recommendations must include advice regarding appropriate high-fibre, low glycaemic index foods.
A short-term multilevel population-wide intervention among women in rural and urban locations in India increased chronic disease knowledge but failed to influence practices.
These results suggest that using the combination of calorie and fat restriction may help promote weight loss in obese NIDDM patients. No other long-term benefits of this regimen were observed.
Our results suggest that high fibre intake is inversely associated with carotid atherosclerosis.
Over 18 months, persons with prehypertension and stage 1 hypertension can sustain multiple lifestyle modifications that improve control of blood pressure and could reduce the risk for chronic disease.
The observed reductions of 12% to 14% in estimated CHD risk are substantial and, if achieved, should have important public health benefits.
Several lifestyle behavior changes are important for BP lowering, but are difficult to detect when weight is included in multivariate models.
Tailored, self-help interventions can effectively promote dietary change among both men and women and among younger as well as older adults.
Reduced-calorie diets result in clinically meaningful weight loss regardless of which macronutrients they emphasize. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Our results indicate that a low-fat ad libitum diet promotes weight loss and LDL-C lowering without adverse effects on triglycerides or the TC/HDL-C ratio in middle-aged and elderly men and women with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
Although more expensive than usual care, the greater effectiveness of physician extenders implementing cholesterol treatment algorithms resulted in more cost-effective therapy.
Comprehensive dietary changes in conjunction with weight loss immediately after acute myocardial infarction may modulate blood lipoproteins and significantly reduce complications and mortality after one year.
The best CHD prevention action that could be taken by smokers would of course be to quit smoking. Those who cannot stop should be encouraged to improve their diet and increase the amount of physical exercise they take in order to reduce the health hazards of their smoking behaviour.
The Stanford Nutrition Action Program curriculum, tailored to the cultural, economic, and learning needs of low-literacy, low-income adults, was significantly more effective in achieving fat-related nutritional changes than the general nutrition curriculum.
Brief behavioral counseling based on advice matched to stage of readiness for change may be valuable in encouraging healthy lifestyles among patients in primary care at raised risk of cardiovascular disease.
In appropriate circumstances, moderate-intensity dietary interventions can show significant effects for periods of at least 1 year.
Weight reduction is the most effective of the strategies tested for reducing blood pressure in normotensive persons. Sodium reduction is also effective. The long-term effects of weight reduction and sodium reduction, alone and in combination, require further evaluation.
During an 18-month follow-up period, this weight reduction program was shown to be an effective nonpharmacologic intervention for reducing blood pressure in overweight adults with high-normal blood pressure.
These results demonstrate that postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes can make comprehensive lifestyle changes that may lead to clinically significant improvements in glycemic control, some coronary heart disease risk factors, and quality of life.
Healthy Nordic diet improved lipid profile and had a beneficial effect on low-grade inflammation.
The LCKD with nutritional supplementation led to beneficial changes in serum lipid subclasses during weight loss. While the LCKD did not lower total LDL cholesterol, it did result in a shift from small, dense LDL to large, buoyant LDL, which could lower cardiovascular disease risk.
These data suggest that intervention participation is positively related to dietary change, but they cannot rule out the possibility that other factors may influence both of these factors.
Programmes using nurse-counsellors were not significantly more successful than usual care from general practitioners, consistent with reported benefits of lifestyle advice from primary-care physicians.
Significant but small differences were observed for nutrition. Positive trends, but no significant results, were observed in trial-wide smoking outcomes. The observed net differences were small owing to the substantial secular changes in target behaviors.
Intensive lifestyle interventions can result in improvements in HRQOL. Change in dietary intake and weight loss is also important.
BMI is a risk factor for both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke but shows different relationships with each. When the total burden of stroke is considered, there is an urgent need to find better ways of reducing the trend toward growing obesity in both Western and Asian countries.
There is a small but potentially important reduction in cardiovascular risk with reduction or modification of dietary fat intake, seen particularly in trials of longer duration.
There are several potential gains from the public disclosure of performance data, but use of the information by provider organizations for quality improvement may be the most productive area for further research.
Continuous volume-cycled NIV via oral interfaces and masks and MAC with oximetry feedback in ambient air can permit safe extubation of unweanable patients with NMD.
Combined NIV/MIE is a safe and effective approach to rapidly improve physiologic indices and decrease the need for intubation in NMD children with ARF. NIV/MIE provides a good alternative for those refusing intubation.
These simple, reproducible methods may provide a clinically useful approach to guiding the extubation of patients who have passed a SBT.
Our study results suggest that the incidence of CF in the Japanese population is even rarer than had been estimated before and that there is a genetic difference between northern European and Japanese populations.
Home screening significantly increased the utilisation of chlamydia and gonorrhoea testing in this sample of high-risk young women, and thus represents a feasible strategy to facilitate STD testing in young women.
Home-based self-collection and self-testing was acceptable, feasible, and resulted in a slightly higher response rate. Home sampling and testing provide promising alternatives to clinic-based STI screening across diverse contexts.
A population-based offer to be tested for urogenital C trachomatis infection by the use of non-invasive samples and DNA amplification did not reduce the long-term risk of reproductive complications in women or of epididymitis in men.
Retesting rates for Chlamydia trachomatis were substantially and significantly improved using the mailed self-collection kit evidencing that the kit could deliver a much needed intervention to improve notoriously low retesting rates.
Although not statistically significant, this study indicates that mailed rescreening could be a successful method to increase rescreening rates.
Focus-group surveys were a useful tool and provided valuable feedback to inform the design of a specialised website to educate and facilitate access to chlamydia screening through home sampling.
SNIPPV is more effective than NCPAP in weaning infants with RDS from the ventilator. PFT may be useful in predicting successful extubation.
NFSIPPV in the post-extubation period is safe and more effective than NCPAP in preventing re-ventilation.
NIMV compared with NCPAP decreased the requirement for endotracheal ventilation in premature infants with RDS. This was associated with a decreased incidence of BPD.
In England, NIPPV is commonly used, with considerable variability in the techniques applied. The wide range of clinical approaches highlights the paucity of evidence available. More evidence is needed to establish best practice.
CapOpus did not reduce the frequency, but possibly the amount, of cannabis use. This is similar to the findings of previous trials in this population. Implementation of CapOpus-type interventions is thus not warranted at present but subgroup analyses call for further trials.
The motivational interviewing/CBT intervention was associated with modest improvements.
The BTSAS program is an efficacious treatment. Further work needs to be done to increase the proportion of eligible patients who are able to become engaged in treatment.
It is possible to reduce substance use in individuals with psychotic disorders, using a targeted group-based approach. This has important implications for clinicians who wish to improve the long-term outcome of their patients.
Brief interventions in substance abuse in young people with psychosis can help moderate substance use in this difficult to treat group.
Cannabis is not, as widely perceived, a harmless drug but poses risks to the individual and to society.
The relationship between cannabis use and psychosis may be bidirectional, highlighting the need for early intervention programmes to target cannabis use and psychotic symptom severity in this population.
Our findings confirm previous reports of an abstinence syndrome associated with chronic marijuana use and suggest that aggressive behavior should be an additional component of this syndrome.
There was consistent evidence that genetic risk factors are important determinants of risk of cannabis dependence among men. However, it remains uncertain whether there are genetic influences on liability to cannabis dependence among women.
While there is circumstantial evidence to support the hypothesis that schizophrenics who abuse drugs or alcohol are at an increased risk of behaving violently, longitudinal studies are required to facilitate a better understanding of the mediating mechanisms.
Cannabis use is associated with an increased risk of developing schizophrenia, consistent with a causal relation. This association is not explained by use of other psychoactive drugs or personality traits relating to social integration.
Prophylactic nystatin and fluconazole reduce the incidence of colonisation and invasive fungal infection in VLBW neonates. The authors believe that nystatin is an alternative to fluconazole, because nystatin is safe, inexpensive, well tolerated and effective.
Prophylactic administration of fluconazole during the first six weeks of life is effective in preventing fungal colonization and invasive fungal infection in infants with birth weights of less than 1000 g.
Prophylactic administration of fluconazole to all ELBW infants was associated with significantly decreased rates of IFI without associated adverse effects.
Fluconazole prophylaxis appeared to be beneficial in preventing invasive fungal infection in VLBW infants.
Fluconazole prophylaxis administered to VLBW neonates in 4- to 6-week courses after birth does not lead to the emergence of natively fluconazole-resistant Candida spp.
Selective antifungal prophylaxis has reduced invasive fungal sepsis in one NICU without evidence of fluconazole resistance emerging.
This study suggests that targeted short-course fluconazole prophylaxis in very low birth weight and ELBW infants may be efficacious and cost effective.
In this cohort of ELBW infants, those with infection and/or meningitis were at increased risk for death and/or NDI. This risk was highest among those with Candida sepsis and/or meningitis.
The incidence of invasive candidiasis in the NICU decreased over the 14-year study period. Increased use of fluconazole prophylaxis and empirical antifungal therapy, along with decreased use of broad-spectrum antibacterial antibiotics, may have contributed to this observation.
Blood cultures were negative for approximately one half of the infants with Candida meningitis. Persistent candidiasis was common. Delayed catheter removal was associated with increased death and NDI rates.
Fluconazole was safe and effective antifungal therapy even in complicated or Candida fungemia in neonates and in infants with very low birth weight.
This phase I/II first study of recombinant human GAA derived from CHO cells showed that rhGAA is capable of improving cardiac and skeletal muscle functions in infantile GSD-II patients. Further study will be needed to assess the overall potential of this therapy.
This analysis provides support for the effectiveness of school reentry interventions and highlights the critical need for more empirical work in this area.
Chronic neurodevelopmental and seizure disorders, but not cardiovascular disorders or diabetes, were independently associated with low school performance among children and youth.
Most young adults growing up with a chronic illness graduate high school and have employment. However, these young adults are significantly less likely than their healthy peers to achieve these important educational and vocational milestones.
Childhood chronic conditions have highly variable impacts on children's activities and use of health care.
Findings suggest that adolescents with anxiety disorders are at an increased risk of subsequent anxiety, depression, illicit drug dependence, and educational underachievement as young adults. Clinical and research implications are considered.
Continuing treatment with buprenorphine-naloxone improved outcome compared with short-term detoxification. Further research is necessary to assess the efficacy and safety of longer-term treatment with buprenorphine for young individuals with opioid dependence.
Use of surfactant, particularly in the early phase of respiratory failure, significantly decreases the need for ECMO in the treatment of term newborns with respiratory failure, without increasing the risk of complications.
Our experience suggested that surfactant lavage seems to be an effective and safe method for treatment of severe MAS. A multicenter randomized control trial is indicated to further study the efficacy of this treatment.
BAL with dilute porcine surfactant administered slowly in 2.5 mL aliquots improved oxygenation and chest x-ray findings, without causing major adverse effects, in mechanically ventilated term infants with ARDS due to MAS.
Dilute Surfaxin lavage seems to be a safe and potentially effective therapy in the treatment of MAS. Data from this investigation support future prospective, controlled clinical trials of bronchoalveolar lavage with Surfaxin in neonates with MAS.
Our results suggest that iNO treatment may inhibit DNA oxidation and neuronal injury in the hippocampus, associated with newborn meconium aspiration.
Among infants ventilated by HFOV, those receiving inhaled NO had a reduced need for ECMO. We speculate that HFOV enhances the effectiveness of inhaled NO treatment in infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn and associated lung disease.
Inhaled nitric oxide reduces the extent to which extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is needed in neonates with hypoxemic respiratory failure and pulmonary hypertension.
Nitric oxide therapy reduced the use of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, but had no apparent effect on mortality in critically ill infants with hypoxic respiratory failure.
Macrosomic neonates benefit from longer needle length with higher levels of antibody titers after HBV vaccination.
Immunogenicity and safety results are in favor of intramuscular vaccination. The appropriate needle length must to be adapted according to the morphological aspects (subcutaneous tissue and muscle thickness).
The use of composite outcomes in trials is problematic. Components are often unreasonably combined, inconsistently defined, and inadequately reported. These problems will leave many readers confused, often with an exaggerated perception of how well interventions work.
The 4 mm x 32G PN provided equivalent glycemic control compared to 31G, 5 mm and 8 mm PNs with reduced pain, no difference in insulin leakage and was preferred by patients.
Priorix vaccine causes significantly less pain than M-M-R II at the time of injection for 12-month-old infants receiving their first measles-mumps-rubella vaccination.
For intramuscular immunization of early adolescents, a 16-mm needle is appropriate for those weighing <60 kg, and a 25-mm needle is appropriate for those weighing 60 to 70 kg, using either technique.
There were significant differences between the 3 cohorts in health-related quality of life, not related to differences in birth weight, gestational age, or cerebral palsy. Survival and response rates alone cannot explain these differences.
The FLACC provides a simple framework for quantifying pain behaviors in children who may not be able to verbalize the presence or severity of pain. Our preliminary data indicates the FLACC pain assessment tool is valid and reliable.
In obese patients, use of 31 G x 6 mm and 29 G x 12.7 mm needles produced comparable HbA(1c) values, double-blind pain and leakage scores, convenience, and ease of use. However, patients preferred the shorter needle.
Newborns who had diabetic mothers and were exposed to repeated heel lances in the first 24 to 36 hours of life learned to anticipate pain and exhibited more intense pain responses during venipuncture than normal infants.
Although EVES provide objective benefits to the visually impaired in reading speed and acuity, together with some specific near tasks, some can be performed just as fast using optical magnification.
The modified IVI_C is a unidimensional, reliable, and valid scale for assessing QoL of children with vision impairment. It provides a valid means of assessing the outcomes of interventions and needs in children with vision impairment.
Two mechanisms seem to be used spontaneously by normally sighted readers to mitigate the limitation of reading speed created by the shortened saccades: head movement in the direction of reading and retinal image slip during fixation.
More studies are needed to determine the prevalence and causes of FLV in children so that services can be planned that promote independence, improve quality of life, and increase access to education.
Our findings suggest that in England and Wales, cerebral visual impairment is now the commonest cause of paediatric SSI certification and hereditary retinal dystrophy and congenital globe anomalies are the commonest causes of SI certification.
The three acuity procedures concur above a VA of 0.02. The results suggest that the category CF at 30 cm can be replaced by 0.014, using ETDRS or FrACT. Using FrACT, one can even reproducibly quantify VA in the HM-range, yielding a mean VA of 0.005.
Together, these findings provide compelling evidence for differences in social/emotional processing and underlying neural circuitry in siblings of individuals with autism, supporting the notion of unique endophenotypes associated with the broad autism phenotype.
There is insufficient evidence to implicate any one prenatal factor in autism aetiology, although there is some evidence to suggest that exposure to pregnancy complications may increase the risk.
Cohort curves suggest that autism prevalence has been increasing with time, as evidenced by higher prevalences among younger birth cohorts. The narrowing in vertical separation of the cohort curves in recent years may mark a slowing in the autism prevalence increase.
These data suggest an involvement of OXTR in the susceptibility to autism, and replication is important.
There were no statistically significant differences between postoperative infection after the single dose of clindamycin and infection in the 24-hour prophylaxis group (P =.3244).
There was a statistically significant (P<.004) increased risk of having an infectious complication after bimaxillary orthognathic surgery without antibiotic prophylaxis. No significant difference in the incidence of infectious complications was found between the 2 medications.
The SF-12 summary measures replicate well the SF-36 summary measures and show similar responsiveness to change. The SF-12 appears to be an efficient alternative to the SF-36 for the assessment of health related quality of life of patients with coronary heart disease.
This study demonstrated that, in adults, failure to reverse mivacurium neuromuscular block was associated with an increased incidence of residual block. Such weakness was not observed in children receiving similar anesthetic and neuromuscular blocking regimens.
Ova therapy seems safe and effective in patients with active colitis.
This new therapy may offer a unique, safe, and efficacious alternative for Crohn's disease management. These findings also support the premise that natural exposure to helminths such as T suis affords protection from immunological diseases like Crohn's disease.
Patients with moderate-to-severe active ulcerative colitis treated with infliximab at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every eight weeks thereafter were more likely to have a clinical response at weeks 8, 30, and 54 than were those receiving placebo. (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
Here we expand on previous findings by demonstrating that breast-feeding may have an analgesic effect up to age 6 months and that in older children, both sucrose and lidocaine-prilocaine reduce vaccination pain.
Despite the increasing availability of clinical practice guidelines for procedural pain in children, the majority are of average quality. More transparency and comprehensive reporting are needed for the guideline development process.
Study findings highlight the importance of examining prenatal alcohol exposure as a risk factor in the prediction of childhood-onset depression and the environmental mechanisms that may mediate that relationship.
This study demonstrates that when used to manage pain, sucrose reduces the pain response to a subsequent routine caregiving procedure. Therefore, the benefits of sucrose analgesia extend beyond the painful event to other aversive and potentially painful procedures.
Treatment with intravenous ferric carboxymaltose in patients with chronic heart failure and iron deficiency, with or without anemia, improves symptoms, functional capacity, and quality of life; the side-effect profile is acceptable. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Although our study failed to show any significant benefit from the addition of medication to the Merocel MMS, further studies with different compounds are recommended to determine whether a medicated MMS could indeed be a superior alternative to the standard MMS.
Removal of the Rapid Rhino nasal tampon was significantly less painful and was associated with higher patient satisfaction than the removal of the Rhino Rocket nasal tampon.
Data analysis suggests a significant improvement in early postoperative healing in nasal cavities receiving triamcinolone-impregnated absorbable nasal packing following ESS and is also associated with improved healing up to 6 months postoperatively.
It is hoped that the guidelines provided in this article will facilitate the appropriate application of these treatments to improve and extend the lives of all individuals with cystic fibrosis.
In patients with cystic fibrosis, the administration of rhDNase reduced but did not eliminate exacerbations of respiratory symptoms, resulted in slight improvement in pulmonary function, and was well tolerated.
In a 24-week study of patients with cystic fibrosis, intermittent administration of inhaled tobramycin was well tolerated and improved pulmonary function, decreased the density of P. aeruginosa in sputum, and decreased the risk of hospitalization.
Data from the patient registry suggest that the epidemiology of bacterial pathogens in patients with CF changed during the study period. Future studies should continue to monitor changing trends and define the association between these trends and care practices in CF.
Reduced serum levels of vitamin A and E even in the normal range are associated with an increased rate of pulmonary exacerbations in CF. Further studies are required to confirm the necessity of supplementation of vitamins A and E to PS patients.
Our results show that prolonged alpha-T deficiency in infancy is associated with lower subsequent cognitive performance. Thus, diagnosis via NBS may benefit the cognitive development of children with CF, particularly in those prone to vitamin E deficiency during infancy.
Gastrectomy should be considered a risk for vitamin E deficiency and neurological disturbance over the long-term clinical course. An oral vitamin E supply can improve serum vitamin E levels and neurological symptoms.
The limited available evidence seems not to preclude a benefit from the administration of antimicrobial agents via the respiratory tract for treating nosocomial pneumonia.
Even when effective virological control is no longer achievable, cART still reduces the risk of ADEs in profoundly immunodeficient HIV-infected patients.
Nebulizer delivery of aerosolized aminoglycosides is efficient and predictable. In our clinical model, aerosolized antibiotics can make a significant impact on respiratory secretions. Their efficacy in treatment of critically ill patients remains to be determined.
In critically ill patients with ventilator-associated tracheobronchitis, AA decrease VAP and other signs and symptoms of respiratory infection, facilitate weaning, and reduce bacterial resistance and use of systemic antibiotics.
Hind foot, midfoot and total Pirani scores reduce much faster with Ponseti than the Kite's method of manipulation of clubfoot. In paired analysis the difference becomes statistically significant at fourth week and in unpaired analysis at 10(th) week from the start of treatment.
The modified Ponseti method with the treatment program twice a week is safe and effective. It significantly shortens the timeframe for the treatment.
Surgical correction of CTEV was successful in providing a functional plantigrade foot as the patients reached adulthood. However, limitations included foot pain, limited foot range of motion, and weakness.
Although not as successful as for idiopathic clubfeet, when the Ponseti technique is applied to nonidiopathic clubfeet, correction can be achieved and maintained in most patients.
The Ponseti method is a safe and effective treatment for congenital idiopathic clubfoot and radically decreases the need for extensive corrective surgery. This technique can be used in children up to 2 years of age even after previous unsuccessful nonsurgical treatment.
This study showed radiologically and clinically satisfactory results in both groups. Overall, operative treatment with a Reconstruction plate or reconstruction LCP for clavicle shaft fractures can be used to obtain stable fixation.
High quality evidence from one study and low quality evidence from three studies showed no difference in functional outcome or complications after plate fixation or intramedullary fixation for displaced midshaft clavicle fractures.
This review demonstrates that few patients with fractures of the mid-part of the clavicle require operative treatment.
Lacosamide is an effective agent for adjunctive treatment of refractory partial-onset seizures. Its exact role in the treatment of neuropathic pain needs to be determined.
These results should be useful in estimating amounts of nutrients and toxic substances that women of reproductive age obtain through the water supply.
In 1 to 3-year-old boys with cryptorchidism gonadotropin releasing hormone or HCG given for testicular descent may suppress the number of germ cells.
Annandale performed the first successful orchiopexy by integrating the surgical and antiseptic ideas of his predecessors and contemporaries.
The results of our study have shown that neoadjuvant GnRH treatment improves the fertility index in prepubertal cryptorchidism and, consequently, should improve fertility in adulthood.
An endobronchial metastasis from a RCC appears as a strong-enhancing mass or bronchial wall thickening, accompanied by reticular opacities and ground glass opacities.
Treatment for undescended testis before puberty decreases the risk of testicular cancer.
Testes that remain undescended are associated with progressive loss of germ and Leydig cells, and nonpalpable testes predict severe germ cell loss.
In patients with Crohn's disease in remission, a novel enteric-coated fish-oil preparation is effective in reducing the rate of relapse.
When the fat consisted of long-chain triglycerides, a high amount of this fat in the elemental diet formula decreased its therapeutic effect against active Crohn's disease.
The 3-Impact Powder showed immunomodulatory properties and might inhibit an increase of proinflammatory cytokines in contrast to the 6-Impact Powder.
Both nutrient formulas induced clinical remission in about two-thirds of patients. The results of the present study suggest that it is not necessary to restrict the amount of MCT when given in liquid form to patients with active Crohn's disease.
Our data suggest an approximate fourfold increased risk of lymphoma in IBD patients treated with azathioprine/6-MP. The increased risk of lymphoma could be a result of the medications, the severity of the underlying disease, or a combination of the two.
Adiponectin was found to be expressed in myofibroblasts. Adiponectin expression was significantly suppressed by induction of colitis, and aggravation of colitis after exposure to omega-3 fat may be due to a further decrease in the expression level of adiponectin.
Fish oil has numerous practical applications for the primary care physician. Understanding the diverse clinical research of Omega-3 fatty acids and fish oil is important in determining its role in primary care practices.
Children with inflammatory bowel disease have a high risk of n-6 PUFA depletion, which is related to disease activity.
Studies that examined reasons for a higher incidence and duration of breastfeeding term infants consistently document that women who initiate and continue to breastfeed are older, married, better educated, and have higher family incomes than women who do not breastfeed.
This study found a dose-response relationship between number of 10-step practices experienced and breastfeeding. However, very few women in Taiwan reported experiencing all 10 steps. Our findings highlight the need for greater attention to implement the 10 steps.
Hospitals should implement policies that support breastfeeding with particular attention to eliminating supplementation of healthy newborns.
Supplementation during the first week, breast-feeding problems and Caesarean delivery are associated with early cessation of full breast-feeding. The results support a cautious approach to supplementation during the first week of life.
In the United States, the prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months remains low among those who initiate breastfeeding. Factors associated with breastfeeding exclusively for 6 months differ from those associated with breastfeeding initiation.
Breastfed infants should be encouraged to feed on demand, day and night, rather than conform to an average that may not be appropriate for the mother-infant dyad.
Implementation of the five hospital practices supportive of breastfeeding significantly increased breastfeeding duration rates regardless of maternal socioeconomic status.
Two-thirds of mothers who intend to exclusively breastfeed are not meeting their intended duration. Increased Baby-Friendly hospital practices, particularly giving only breast milk in the hospital, may help more mothers achieve their exclusive breastfeeding intentions.
Our findings underscore the importance of integrating IBCLCs into routine pre- and postpartum care because they provide critical support that effectively addresses early postpartum barriers to breastfeeding.
Application of imiquimod 5% cream to herpes labialis lesions was associated with a delay in the time to the first recurrence after treatment, but severe local inflammation occurred in some individuals.
Children with other underlying diseases have morbidity similar to those with BPD. Prophylactic interventions against RSV should also be studied in these groups.
Monthly palivizumab (15 mg/kg IM) was safe, well-tolerated, and effective for prophylaxis of serious RSV disease in young children with hemodynamically significant CHD.
Infants with CF incurring respiratory virus infection are at significant risk for LRTI, for hospitalization, and for deterioration in lung function that persists months after the acute illness.
Monthly intramuscular administration of palivizumab is safe and effective for prevention of serious RSV illness in premature children and those with BPD.
Patients with three or more risk factors were at very high risk for having a severe or complicated disease course associated with admission to the PICU, placement on mechanical ventilation and a longer hospital length of stay.
The results of this cost-effectiveness analysis do not justify the widespread use of Palivizumab among preterm infants. Lowering the costs of prophylaxis would be the most direct way to improve the cost-effectiveness ratio of Palivizumab.
Respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis during the first year of life apparently is an important risk factor for the development of asthma and sensitization to common allergens during the subsequent 2 years, particularly in children with hereditary for atopy/asthma.
Palivizumab reduced RSV hospitalizations in high risk infants in a region with high rates of RSV hospitalization.
CRP point-of-care testing to assist in prescribing decisions, including delayed prescribing, for LRTI and rhinosinusitis may be a useful strategy to decrease antibiotic use and increase patient satisfaction without compromising patient recovery.
Point-of-care CRP testing does not seem to provide any additional value beyond a point-of-care clinical decision support for reducing antibiotic use in adults with acute cough illness.
The availability of CRP and WBC data during initial consultation greatly reduced prescription of amoxicillin, but had a lesser effect on newer, potent, broad spectrum antibiotics.
Despite GP enthusiasm for the concept of a rapid test to distinguish viral from bacterial infection, strategies to promote uptake would be enhanced if concerns were addressed regarding the importance and feasibility of such tests in daily practice.
Variation in clinical presentation does not explain the considerable variation in antibiotic prescribing for acute cough in Europe. Variation in antibiotic prescribing is not associated with clinically important differences in recovery.
Acceptability of POCTs to clinicians is likely to be improved if tests perform well on accuracy, time to result, simplicity and cost. Including POCTs in the routine management of acute cough/LRTI is likely to be acceptable to most patients.
Cord-related adverse events in neonatal umbilical cord care remain a clinical issue. Even in an aseptic birth context in a developed country, cord care with CX powder showed a reduction of cord-related adverse events.
Cleansing the birth canal with chlorhexidine reduced neonatal and maternal postpartum infections. The safety, simplicity, and low cost of the procedure suggest that it should be considered standard care for the reduction of infant and maternal morbidity and mortality.
A one-time chlorhexidine vaginal wash does not decrease the use of antibiotics or incidence of neonatal infection in our population.
The gel formulation was not inferior to aqueous and gel reduced bacterial colonization to a greater degree. A gel formulation might be considered in future research or program settings where chlorhexidine cleansing of the cord is being evaluated or promoted.
In neonatal intensive care units and neonatal special care units of developed countries, salicylic sugar powder can be used effectively and safely for UC care of preterm infants.
Cleansing the birth canal with chlorhexidine reduced early neonatal and maternal postpartum infectious problems. The safety, simplicity, and low cost of the procedure suggest that it should be considered as standard care to lower infant and maternal morbidity and mortality.
The chlorhexidine gluconate-impregnated sponge is safe and significantly reduces the rates of CVC colonization in infants and children after cardiac surgery.
Multi micronutrient fortified milk and cereal products can be an effective option to reduce anemia of children up to three years of age in developing countries. On the basis of our data the evidence for functional health outcomes is still inconclusive.
This low-cost fortified porridge can potentially have a significant effect in reducing anemia and improving iron status and motor development of infants in poor settings. The formulation needs some adjustment in terms of zinc fortification.
Dietary intake of fast food is a determinant of diet quality in adolescent girls. Efforts to reduce fast-food consumption may be useful in improving diet and risk for future cardiovascular disease.
Prenatal surgery for myelomeningocele reduced the need for shunting and improved motor outcomes at 30 months but was associated with maternal and fetal risks. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The Almodin-Moron trocar provides a uterine entry during creation of a hysterotomy that is as quick and causes as little trauma as the Tulipan-Bruner trocar.
The PRIMACORP study will address several questions regarding the safety and efficacy of prophylactic milrinone use in pediatric patients at high risk for development of LCOS after cardiac surgery.
The use of high-dose milrinone after pediatric congenital heart surgery reduces the risk of LCOS.
Combined use of iNO and milrinone optimally stabilized pulmonary hemodynamics after Fontan operation.
Both inotropic drugs were similarly effective in restoring tissue blood flow and oxygen supply to adequate levels in patients with low cardiac output undergoing cardiac surgery.
This placebo-controlled, double-blind study has conclusively demonstrated the benefits of milrinone in facilitating weaning of high-risk patients from cardiopulmonary bypass.
The combination of milrinone and NO produced a more pronounced decrease in PAP than milrinone alone.
Levosimendan infused in neonates undergoing cardiac surgery was well tolerated with a potential benefit of levosimendan on postoperative hemodynamic and metabolic parameters of RACHS 3-4 neonates.
Therapy with either a natriuretic peptide or vasodilator was associated with significantly lower in-hospital mortality than positive inotropic therapy in patients hospitalized with ADHF. The risk of in-hospital mortality was similar for nesiritide and nitroglycerin.
Use of intravenous inotropic agents during hospitalization for heart failure varies significantly among US hospitals even after accounting for patient and hospital factors.
Serial blood lactate level measurements may be an accurate predictor of death or the requirement for extracorporeal membrane oxygenator support for patients who undergo complex neonatal cardiac surgery.
Milrinone use is an independent risk factor for postoperative AF after elective cardiac surgery.
Our data demonstrated the existence of different subgroups based on de novo or pre-existing episode(s) of AHF and the site of hospitalization. Recognition of these subgroups might improve management and outcome by defining specific therapeutic requirements.
Arterial pulse wave analysis by the PulseCO system provides a novel, minimally invasive method of determining real-time cardiac output in children.
The transpulmonary thermodilution technique is a reliable method of measuring cardiac output in newborn animals. It is also capable of tracking changes in cardiac output.
This is the first national evaluation of prescribing trends in pediatric ADHF medication. A large degree of variability in medication use for ADHF and low rates of beta-blocker and ACE inhibitor use at discharge were identified.
The present results strongly suggest that RACHS-1, nosocomial pneumonia, LCOS, fluid retention postoperatively, and EF are risk factors for PMV in neonates and young infants undergoing reparative surgery for congenital heart disease.
Bedside US can visualize the anatomic position of the ETT position in preterm and term infants but further validation is required before routine clinical implementation.
Bedside ultrasonography can be used to accurately and rapidly determine the presence of the endotracheal tube within the trachea in pediatric patients.
The lung model revealed that the tidal volume threshold for the tested colorimetric carbon dioxide detectors is less than the expected tidal volume of a 400-g infant and suggests that these devices are appropriate for use with any neonate to confirm intubation.
Developing proficiency at intubation requires a significant amount of experience. Current pediatric residents at our institution have inadequate opportunity to achieve consistent success.
Physicians are slowly improving their antibiotic prescribing patterns but the use of inappropriate antibiotics is still common. Almost half of patients with upper respiratory tract infections receive antibiotics.
Daily hypertonic saline nasal irrigation improves sinus-related quality of life, decreases symptoms, and decreases medication use in patients with frequent sinusitis. Primary care physicians can feel comfortable recommending this therapy.
Nasal irrigation is effective in improving symptoms and the health status of patients with sinonasal disease.
The CL mechanical complication rate in the ED at this institution is 3.4%. This is substantially lower than previously reported mechanical complication rates.
As initial intravenous treatment for overt generalized convulsive status epilepticus, lorazepam is more effective than phenytoin. Although lorazepam is no more efficacious than phenobarbital or diazepam plus phenytoin, it is easier to use.
The results indicate that the efficacy of intravenous anesthetics in attenuating ischemic neuronal damage varies among agents, relating to their effects on NMDA receptors.
Infants and young children with RSV LRTD do not benefit from routine treatment with antibiotics (ISRCTN number 86554663).
Administration of rhDNase did not reduce the length of hospital stay or the duration of supplemental oxygen in oxygen-dependent infants with RSV bronchiolitis.
Considerable, unexplained variation exists in the inpatient management of bronchiolitis. The development of national guidelines and controlled trials of new therapies and different management approaches are indicated.
Highly febrile children 3 to 36 months of age with uncomplicated croup, bronchiolitis, varicella or stomatitis have a very low rate of bacteremia and need not have blood drawn for culture.
In office settings, serious bacterial illness in young febrile infants with clinically diagnosed bronchiolitis is uncommon. Limited testing for bacterial infections seems to be an appropriate management strategy.
Up to 40% of children with severe RSV bronchiolitis requiring admission to the PICU were infected with bacteria in their lower airways and were at increased risk for bacterial pneumonia.
Opportunities exist to rationalize bronchiolitis management in New Zealand with potential cost savings, particularly by reducing the number of chest radiographs and prescribing of unnecessary antibiotics and bronchodilators.
Human metapneumovirus infection is a leading cause of respiratory tract infection in the first years of life, with a spectrum of disease similar to that of respiratory syncytial virus.
Gut-directed HT is highly effective in the treatment of children with longstanding FAP or IBS.
Interdisciplinary cognitive behavioural pain management (with family involvement) is a promising approach to the management of pain, pain related distress, and disability.
We discuss the importance of developmentally based conceptual models and the impact of diagnostic heterogeneity and offer specific recommendations for future intervention research in the area of recurrent pediatric headache.
Clinical evidence suggests that cognitive-behavioral strategies for the management of disease pain in children are promising and manualized, controlled intervention studies are needed.
The results indicate that there is a beneficial effect regarding UTI when using hydrophilic-coated catheters.
The prelubricated nonhydrophilic catheter is a safe, effective and comfortable option in spinal cord injured patients on intermittent self-catheterization.
In boys the LoFric catheter appears to cause less trauma. Although it is not reusable and is more expensive than the standard catheter, satisfaction is higher with the LoFric device and for select patients it has significant advantages.
The introducer tip catheter decreased urinary tract infections in hospitalized men with spinal cord injury on intermittent catheterization.
The use of prophylactic antibiotics for children who intermittently catheterize may not be necessary. The use of prophylactic antibiotics may result in increased rates of infection because of the development of resistant organisms.
Significant variation exists in the cleaning and sterilizing techniques used by our patients, although they were given uniform written and verbal instructions. It is unclear from the data in the literature how this variation affects sterilization.
The incidence of genitourinary complications associated with CIC in children with spina bifida is low. We identified 2 complications during a period of 570 patient-years for an incidence of 3.5 complications/1000 patient-years (95% confidence interval -1.3, 8.3) of observation.
The findings from our study suggest that acupuncture may be useful for preventing and treating gag reflex, and justifies further study.
This trial established clear proof of concept for PRO 140 as a potent antiretroviral agent with extended activity after a single dose.
This trial demonstrates proof of concept for a monoclonal antibody administered subcutaneously in HIV-1 infected individuals. Subcutaneous PRO 140 offers the potential for significant dose-dependent HIV-1 RNA suppression and infrequent patient self-administration.
The recent declines in morbidity and mortality due to AIDS are attributable to the use of more intensive antiretroviral therapies.
Alternative medicine use and expenditures increased substantially between 1990 and 1997, attributable primarily to an increase in the proportion of the population seeking alternative therapies, rather than increased visits per patient.
Based on the present state of evidence, clinicians cannot be didactic in their recommendations regarding diet, hygiene and face-washing, and sunlight to patients with acne. Advice should be individualized, and both clinician and patient cognizant of its limitations.
Few controlled clinical trials have been published and most are methodologically weak. The clinical efficacy of none of the herbal medicines has so far been demonstrated beyond doubt. This area seems to merit further study through rigorous clinical trials.
There is a gradual decrease in the efficacy of topical erythromycin in clinical trials of therapeutic intervention for acne, which is probably related to the development of antibiotic-resistant propionibacteria.
A single 300 mg dose of doxycycline is as effective as the standard multiple dose tetracycline treatment for cholera in terms of stool output, duration of diarrhoea, vomiting, and requirement for oral rehydration solution.
Single-dose azithromycin was effective in the treatment of severe cholera in adults. The lack of efficacy of ciprofloxacin may result from its diminished activity against V. cholerae O1 strains currently circulating in Bangladesh. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Neonates > or =34 weeks who require mechanical ventilation represent a high-risk population who have significant morbidity and mortality.
Salmeterol appears to provide a protective effect, not related to bronchodilation, against an acute alveolar fluid clearance challenge secondary to lung fluid overload in COPD patients.
Aerosolized salbutamol accelerates the resolution of lung edema, improves blood oxygenation, and stimulated cardiovascular function after lung resection in high-risk patients.
A significant reduction in neonatal respiratory morbidity would be obtained if elective caesarean section was performed in the week 39+0 to 39+6 of pregnancy.
This study suggests that empiric postnatal antibiotic treatment may not be warranted for late preterm and term infants with TTN in the absence of specific infectious risk factors.
This three-component DTaP vaccine demonstrates significantly greater immune responses to pertussis toxoid, filamentous hemagglutinin, and pertactin, equivalent immune responses to diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and significantly less reactogenicity compared with a licensed DTwP.
The two acellular DTP vaccines we studied were safe, immunogenic, and efficacious against pertussis, whereas the efficacy of the whole-cell DTP vaccine was unexpectedly low.
The five-component acellular pertussis vaccine we evaluated can be recommended for general use, since it has a favorable safety profile and confers sustained protection against pertussis. The two-component acellular vaccine and the whole-cell vaccine were less efficacious.
This two-component ADTP vaccine, when given as a primary infant series, produces fewer adverse effects and greater immunogenicity to the two pertussis components that it contains than US-licensed WDTP vaccine.
A pharmacologically inert, acellular pertussis-toxoid vaccine that is easily standardized is safe and confers substantial protection against pertussis.
Biofilm susceptibility testing of CF P. aeruginosa isolate sets leads to different antibiotic assignments than conventional testing, with no single two-drug regimen predicted to provide optimal anti-biofilm activity against the majority of isolate sets.
Amantadine was not superior to placebo. Because fatigue remains a serious complaint, other studies evaluating new treatment options are strongly recommended.
Indoor air pollution levels in Malawian homes are high. Further investigation is justified because the levels that we have demonstrated are hazardous and are likely to be damaging to health. Interventions should be sought to reduce exposure to concentrations less harmful to health.
Supplementation with 25 to 75 g/day of highly fortified spread is feasible and may promote growth and alleviate anaemia among moderately malnourished infants. Further trials should test this hypothesis.
The findings suggest that the distribution of locally available foods is operationally feasible and improves child weight gain and decreases acute malnutrition in Kenyan children.
Iron deficiency is not a concern in WCM-fed infants after six months of age if iron-containing complementary foods are concurrently ingested.
Providing RUSF as part of a general food distribution resulted in improvements in hemoglobin status and small improvements in linear growth, accompanied by an apparent reduction in morbidity.
Early food supplementation in pregnancy reduced the occurrence of stunting during 0-54 months in boys, but not in girls, and prenatal MMS increased the proportion of stunting in boys. These effects on postnatal growth suggest programming effects in early fetal life.
A high proportion of FRDA patients have a decreased serum CoQ(10) level which was the best predictor of a positive clinical response to CoQ(10)/vitamin E therapy. Low and high dose CoQ(10)/vitamin E therapies were equally effective in improving ICARS scores.
Short-term benefit of intensive rehabilitation was evident in patients with degenerative cerebellar diseases. Although functional status tended to decline to the baseline level within 24 weeks, gains were maintained in more than half of the participants.
These findings indicate the potential effectiveness of riluzole as symptomatic therapy in diverse forms of cerebellar ataxia.
These results demonstrated that the levorotatory form of 5-hydroxytryptophan is able to modify significantly the cerebellar symptoms in patients with Friedreich's ataxia. However, the effect is only partial and not clinically major.
In this controlled study, varenicline significantly improved axial symptoms and rapid alternating movements in patients with SCA3 as measured by SARA subscores and was fairly well tolerated.
Buspirone treatment showed feasible efficacies for OPCA, while the combined treatment of estrogen and buspirone failed to improve, suggesting estrogen may not have further benefit in cerebellar dysfunction.
Idebenone did not decrease LV hypertrophy or improve cardiac function in subjects with FRDA. The present study does not provide evidence of benefit in this cohort over a 6-month treatment period.
This controlled trial on EA2 and familial episodic ataxia with nystagmus demonstrated that 4AP decreases attack frequency and improves quality of life.
The clinical spectrum of Friedreich's ataxia is broader than previously recognized, and the direct molecular test for the GAA expansion on chromosome 9 is useful for diagnosis, determination of prognosis, and genetic counseling.
The findings provide evidence for the efficacy of the LSVT as well as the long term maintenance of these effects in the treatment of voice and speech disorders in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
The bioresorbable calcium phosphate cement used in this study appears to be a better choice, at least in terms of the prevention of subsidence, than autogenous iliac bone graft for the treatment of subarticular defects associated with unstable tibial plateau fractures.
This study found a high prevalence of soft tissue injuries with nondisplaced fractures of the tibial plateau and cautions the physician and patient with respect to future knee function and possible arthrosis.
We conclude that the presence of epileptiform activity does not in itself necessarily influence prognosis after discontinuation of treatment but that certain types of such activity signal a high risk of relapse.
Although only about one third of patients with a first unprovoked seizure will have further seizures within five years, about three quarters of those with two or three unprovoked seizures have further seizures within four years.
Nearly 50% of newly diagnosed patients became seizure-free on the first-ever AED, with >90% doing so at moderate or even modest dosing. Tolerability was as important as efficacy in determining overall effectiveness.
The risk of seizure recurrence during drug tapering and after the discontinuation of antiepileptic drug therapy in children with epilepsy is not different whether the medications are tapered over a six-week or a nine-month period.
Aluminum hydroxide is less effective than calcium carbonate as a phosphate-binding agent for the control of hyperphosphatemia and is associated with aluminum retention in children and young adults with chronic renal failure who are receiving dialysis therapy.
Ergocalciferol is an effective treatment that delays the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism in children with CKD2-3.
These results demonstrate that under acute conditions, intravenous and oral calcitriol boli equally stimulate calcium absorption and had a similar efficacy in suppressing PTH secretion.
Short-term, high-dose glucocorticoid therapy decreases the BMC of the lumbar spine in steroid-naïve children with NS. Vitamin D and calcium co-administration not only prevents this decline, but also enhances BMC of the lumbar spine.
Coronary-artery calcification is common and progressive in young adults with end-stage renal disease who are undergoing dialysis.
Available evidence from low-to-moderate quality observational studies and fewer RCTs suggests that vitamin D supplementation improves biochemical endpoints. However, whether such improvements translate into clinically significant outcomes is yet to be determined.
Elevated circulating FGF-23 levels and defects in skeletal mineralization early in the course of CKD suggest that factors other than the traditional markers of mineral deficiency play a crucial role in the development of renal bone disease.
Patients with AVH and MELD score > or = 18, requiring > or = 4 units of PRBCs within the first 24 h or with active bleeding at endoscopy are at increased risk of dying within 6 weeks. MELD score > or = 18 is also a strong predictor of variceal re-bleeding within the first 5 days.
Children with portal vein obstruction have a >50% risk of bleeding during adolescence; the pattern of varices on endoscopy at age 12 may have a prognostic value.
In patients with no or small EV, endoscopy surveillance should be planned taking into account cause and degree of liver dysfunction.
Children with biliary atresia and first EVH episode have a variable prognosis related to total serum bilirubin concentration at the time of the episode.
The postoperative serum bilirubin level is the most important predictor of long-term survival in patients with portoenterostomy for biliary atresia. Esophageal hemorrhage is not an absolute indication for urgent liver transplantation in patients with good bile drainage.
Intensive dietary intervention focusing on phosphorus intake may be useful to reduce phosphorus retention and to improve calcium-phosphorus metabolism in hemodialysis patients.
The chitosan-loaded chewing gum HS219 does not affect serum and salivary phosphorus levels in Japanese HD patients with hyperphosphatemia. Our findings do not support previous findings that 20 mg of chitosan-loaded chewing gum reduces serum and salivary phosphorus levels.
This study represents the first evidence that in CKD patients a protein intake of 0.55 g/kg/day, compared with a 0.8 g/kg/day, guarantees a better metabolic control and a reduced need of drugs, without a substantial risk of malnutrition.
A very-low-protein diet supplemented with ketoanalogues reduced fibroblast growth factor 23 levels in CKD patients not yet on dialysis.
Psychoanalytic and family therapy are of specific value in the out-patient treatment of adult patients with anorexia.
Eating disorders, although relatively uncommon, represent a public health concern because they are frequently associated with other psychopathology and role impairment, and are frequently under-treated.
The authors found a substantially higher lifetime prevalence and incidence of anorexia nervosa than reported in previous studies, most of which were based on treated cases. Most women recovered clinically within 5 years, and thereafter usually progressed toward full recovery.
Anorexia nervosa is more common than previously recognized. Among girls 15-19 years old it is a very common chronic illness. Its incidence has increased among females 15-24 years old but not among older women or among males.
The finding that nonspecific supportive clinical management was superior to more specialized psychotherapies was opposite to the primary hypothesis and challenges assumptions about the effective ingredients of successful treatments for anorexia nervosa.
Specific evidence based psychological and pharmacological treatments are recommended for most eating disorders but more trials are needed for specific therapies in AN, and research is urgently needed for all aspects of ARFID assessment and management.
Anorexia nervosa did not lose its relatively poor prognosis in the 20th century. Advances in etiology and treatment may improve the course of patients with anorexia nervosa in the future.
Patients with SE-AN can make meaningful improvements with both therapies. Both treatments were acceptable and high retention rates at follow-up were achieved. Between-group differences at follow-up were consistent with the nature of the treatments given.
Carers of people with anorexia nervosa are challenged by the difficulties their role produces.
Intradermal injection of botulinum toxin A is an effective and safe therapy for severe axillary hyperhidrosis.
In patients with Frey syndrome, repeated treatment with intracutaneous injection of botulinum toxin type A lowered subjective symptom scores, decreased the size of the affected area, and increased the duration of the effect.
In conclusion, sub-SMAS elevation of the skin flap in parotid surgery provides better results regarding Frey's Syndrome.
Using a higher concentration of botulinum toxin type A (20 MU Dysport/0.1 mL) is more effective than a lower concentration (10 MU Dysport/0.1 mL) in the treatment of Frey's syndrome.
Early treatment with dexamethasone improves the outcome in adults with acute bacterial meningitis and does not increase the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding.
Dexamethasone significantly reduced fatality, progression of SIRS and CSF inflammatory indices.
The results of this study, in which dexamethasone administration began before the initiation of cefotaxime therapy, provide additional evidence of a beneficial effect of dexamethasone therapy in infants and children with bacterial meningitis.
These results confirm the beneficial effect of dexamethasone reported earlier. The relatively frequent transient recurrences of fever and increased CRP when dexamethasone was interrupted suggest that the dose and/or duration of dexamethasone treatment should be modified.
In adults with community-acquired bacterial meningitis, the survival benefit from adjunctive dexamethasone therapy is obtained in the acute phase of the disease and remains for years.
Adjunctive dexamethasone is widely prescribed for patients with meningococcal meningitis and is not associated with harm. The rate of arthritis has decreased after the implementation of dexamethasone.
Our experience does not substantiate the reported benefits of adjunctive dexamethasone in adult BM. Socio-economic and methodological factors do not seem to explain this discrepancy. Empirical use of dexamethasone in this setting appears controversial.
Adjunctive dexamethasone appears to improve the probability of survival in patients with TBM, until at least two years of follow-up. We could not demonstrate a five-year survival benefit of dexamethasone treatment which may be confined to patients with grade 1 TBM.
In this short-term study, MLN02 was more effective than placebo for the induction of clinical and endoscopic remission in patients with active ulcerative colitis.
Budesonide enema 2 mg/100 mL appears to be as efficient and well-tolerated as 5-ASA enema in the treatment of active distal ulcerative colitis and proctitis.
In long-standing extensive ulcerative colitis, the severity of colonic inflammation is an important determinant of the risk of colorectal neoplasia. Endoscopic and histological grading of inflammation could allow better risk stratification for surveillance programs.
There is a significant postnatal decrease in the bone SOS of very low birth weight infants. A brief range-of-motion exercise attenuates the decrease in bone strength and may decrease the risk of osteopenia.
A physical activity program may increase the effects of adequate nutrition in healthy preterm very low birth weight infants by promoting weight gain and bone mass and by decreasing the risk of osteopenia.
A combined massage and physical activity protocol improved bone formation (PICP) but did not affect bone resorption (Pyd). Pyd increased over time in both groups, possibly due to continuous bone resorption and Ca mobilization.
This study suggests that routine prophylactic antibiotics do not reduce the rate of infection after repair of distal fingertip injuries.
Digital and local anesthesia of finger lacerations with prior application of LET to all wounds results in similar pain of needle insertion, anesthetic infiltration, and pain of suturing.
Nail bed repair performed using Dermabond is significantly faster than suture repair, and it provides similar cosmetic and functional results. In the management of acute nail bed lacerations, Dermabond is an efficient and effective repair technique.
Propofol appears to be a better choice for CV sedation in elders because of its short recovery time, fewer side effects, and its more comfortable sedative effect.
There was a lower rate of RD when physicians had access to the BIS during procedural sedations. This difference was greater in sedations requiring multiple doses of propofol. There was no difference in the rate of RD when only a single dose was given.
The patterns demonstrated by the SSC group are analogous to more-mature sleep organization. SSC may be used as an intervention to improve sleep organization in this population of preterm infants.
The study provides evidence for a substantial increase in adolescent emotional problems in England over recent decades, especially among girls.
We propose that available reasons for missingness be used to determine appropriate IMORs. We also recommend a strategy for undertaking sensitivity analyses, in which the IMORs are varied over plausible ranges.
Increasing effectiveness was reported as the level of intervention increased from primary to tertiary. Approaches to evaluate prevention interventions need to be clarified and standardized.
For patients who undergo treatment of colorectal cancer, HRQL at 1 year after diagnosis is still influenced significantly and negatively by the occurrence of surgical complications.
Zinc supplementation in children in developing countries is associated with substantial reductions in the rates of diarrhea and pneumonia, the 2 leading causes of death in these settings.
A dietary zinc supplement resulted in a significant reduction in respiratory morbidity in preschool children. These findings suggest that interventions to improve zinc intake will improve the health and survival of children in developing countries.
Values for measles CFRs remain imprecise, resulting in continued uncertainty about the actual toll measles exacts.
Substituting high-dose continuous LEV for RAC did not reduce the time on continuous therapy and had similar adverse effects in children who had failed initial treatment with RAC.
In this study, levalbuterol administered via MDI significantly improved airway function in comparison with placebo in asthmatic children aged 4-11 years with a safety profile that was similar to placebo.
Salbutamol plus ipratropium bromide improves lung function in asthmatic children with moderate to severe asthma crises, independently of age. The effect is greater in children with severe crises, with a substantial reduction in the need for hospitalization.
Salbutamo and ipratropium bromide inhalation did not improve the airway resistance and ventilation function in children with asthmatoid bronchitis. This suggests that the efficacy of bronchodilator in the treatment of this disease is doubtful.
In the UK population studied, salmeterol, ipratropium bromide and theophylline are regularly used to treat patients with asthma of increasing severity. Salmeterol use was not associated with an increase in short term mortality compared with ipratropium bromide and theophylline.
Among children with a severe exacerbation of asthma, the addition of ipratropium bromide to albuterol and corticosteroid therapy significantly decreases the hospitalization rate.
Theophylline safely hastened the recovery of children in severe status asthmaticus who were also receiving albuterol, ipratropium, and methylprednisolone. The role of theophylline in the management of asthmatic children in impending respiratory failure should be reexamined.
For children 2 to 18 years of age treated in the ED for acute asthma, a single 2-mg dose of budesonide added to standard therapy did not improve asthma severity scores or other short-term ED-based outcomes.
Aminophylline continues to have a place in the management of severe acute asthma in children unresponsive to initial treatment.
The addition of three doses of ipratropium to an ED treatment protocol for acute asthma was associated with reductions in duration and amount of treatment before discharge.
Infusion of high-dose omeprazole before endoscopy accelerated the resolution of signs of bleeding in ulcers and reduced the need for endoscopic therapy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In the first seven days of life, UGIB occurred in 1:4 neonates. Factors independently associated with UGIB included birth asphyxia, cyanosis in the neonate and neonatal seizures.
Ranitidine therapy is associated with an increased risk of infections, NEC, and fatal outcome in VLBW infants. Caution is advocated in the use of this drug in neonatal age.
Music improves patients' overall experience with colonoscopy.
A specific etiology can be determined in the majority of children with global developmental delay. Certain routine screening tests are indicated and depending on history and examination findings, additional specific testing may be performed.
Continuous intravenous administration of pentoxifylline for 5 days beneficially influenced the thrombomodulin/protein C/protein S system in both the trauma and septic patients.
Plasma and TA cytokine levels are elevated in critically ill infants with bacterial sepsis or NEC compared with those in infants with sepsis syndrome. Our results suggest distinct patterns of cytokine elaboration in different disease states.
Continuous infusion of PTX reduces ALI caused by chronic endotoxemia. The effect seems to be a result of decreased expression of endothelial and epithelial ICAM-1 and modulation of proinflammatory cytokine synthesis.
Late-onset sepsis remains an important risk factor for death among VLBW preterm infants and for prolonged hospital stay among VLBW survivors. Strategies to reduce late-onset sepsis and its medical, social, and economic toll need to be addressed urgently.
Because pentoxifylline prevented endothelial cell dysfunction at 10 and 20 hours after CLP occurred, this agent appears to be a useful agent for maintaining vascular endothelial function during the hyperdynamic and hypodynamic stages of polymicrobial sepsis.
Consumption of < or = 600 mg DHA and 140 mg EPA/d for 4 wk increased n-3 PUFA concentrations in relevant tissues but did not cause perturbations in cytokine concentrations in human milk.
Two portions/wk of oily fish increased plasma essential AA concentrations during pregnancy and could contribute to a maternal health benefit. Two portions/wk of salmon did not affect plasma AA concentrations in the newborn.
In pregnant women with previous pregnancy complications, fish oil supplementation delayed onset of delivery in low and middle, but not in high, fish consumers.
DHA supplementation during pregnancy decreased the occurrence of colds in children at 1 month and influenced illness symptom duration at 1, 3, and 6 months.
Prenatal DHA supplementation of primigravid women may result in increased birth size in a population where dietary DHA intakes are very low. Benefits of the intervention on infant health and neurodevelopment are under study.
In central Europe, a dose of 200 mg/day DHA from mid-pregnancy through lactation seems appropriate to improve the DHA status of mothers and infants.
In infants of mothers receiving DHA supplementation, a higher percentage of CD4 naïve cells and decreased CD4 and CD8 IFN(γ) production is compatible with attenuation of a proinflammatory response.
These studies suggest that some pregnant women in our study population were DHA-deficient.
FO supplementation from gestation week 22 until delivery improves fetal n-3 LC-PUFA status and attenuates depletion of maternal stores. MTHF may further enhance maternal n-3 LC-PUFA proportions.
Our results support the hypothesis that DHA supplementation during pregnancy may decrease the incidence of respiratory symptoms in children with a history of maternal atopy.
Allergic disorders are common throughout the UK, affecting males and females of all ages and peoples from all social classes and ethnic groups. They currently represent a substantial burden of morbidity and health service cost.
We suggest that the intake of allergenic foods and foods rich in n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids during pregnancy may increase and foods rich in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids may decrease the risk of allergic diseases in the offspring.
Infants born by assisted vaginal delivery have low pain scores in the immediate period after birth. Paracetamol given to newborns soon after birth may aggravate a subsequent stress response.
Acetaminophen has significant fentanyl-sparing effects and reduces side effects when combined with fentanyl in intravenous parent-/nurse-controlled analgesia for postoperative pediatric pain management.
Acetaminophen, as an adjuvant to continuous morphine infusion, does not have an additional analgesic effect and should not be considered as standard of care in young infants, 0-2 months of age, after major thoracic (non-cardiac) or abdominal surgery.
The validation data suggest that the EDIN is appropriate for assessing prolonged pain in preterm infants. Further studies are warranted to obtain further evidence of construct validity by comparing scores in less extreme situations.
The parameter estimates are similar to those described for propacetamol. There was no evidence of hepatotoxicity. Unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia impacts upon CL, dictating dose reduction.
This survey demonstrates i.v. paracetamol dosing in infants in the UK and Ireland is frequently above the licensed dose and outside the licensed age range but is in keeping with doses suggested by pharmacokinetic studies.
Our results suggest that HTS provided better brain relaxation than did mannitol during elective supratentorial brain tumor surgery, whereas it did not affect ICU stays or hospital days.
Infusion of 75 mL hypertonic (10%) saline decreases elevated ICP and increases cerebral perfusion pressure in stroke patients in whom mannitol had failed. The effect on the ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure reaches its maximum after the end of infusion and is seen for 4 hours.
LGG administration can be recommended as a valid measure for decreasing the risk for nosocomial gastrointestinal and respiratory tract infections in pediatric facilities.
Daily intake of a fermented dairy drink containing the probiotic strain L. casei DN-114 001 showed some promise in reducing overall incidence of illness, but was primarily driven by gastrointestinal infections and there were no differences in change of behavior.
The study shows a tendency to the reduction of duration and incidence of some infectious disorders in those children receiving two daily Actimel during 20 weeks.
The intake of probiotic bacteria during at least 3 months significantly shortened common cold episodes by almost 2 days and reduced the severity of symptoms.
RC milk, alone or with L casei, did not reduce diarrhea or ARTIs in Indonesian children. L reuteri may prevent diarrhea, especially in children with lower nutritional status.
In healthy children attending day care centers, daily administration of L reuteri DSM 17938 had a significant effect in reducing episodes and duration of diarrhea and respiratory tract infection, with consequent cost savings for the community.
Lactobacillus GG may reduce respiratory infections and their severity among children in day care. The effects of the probiotic Lactobacillus GG were modest but consistently in the same direction.
Probiotics did not prevent the occurrence of AOM or the nasopharyngeal carriage of otitis pathogens in otitis-prone children. A tendency showing a reduction in recurrent respiratory infections must be confirmed in further studies.
HBoV, but not HBoV2-4, DNA occurs often in the nasopharynx of otitis-prone children, and may persist for 3-6 months. Probiotic treatment possibly reduced the presence of HBoV.
Gut microbiota modification with specific prebiotics and probiotics might offer a novel and cost-effective means to reduce the risk of rhinovirus infections.
Administration of a follow-on formula with L. fermentum CECT5716 may be useful for the prevention of community-acquired gastrointestinal and upper respiratory infections.
The present meta-analysis suggests that the administration of probiotics did not significantly reduce ICU or hospital mortality rates but did reduce the incidence of ICU-acquired pneumonia and ICU length of stay.
Patients with diabetes who undergo percutaneous coronary interventions for lesions in small vessels have an especially high risk of restenosis that does not appear to be attenuated by stenting.
In Finland, after nationwide reductions in the use of macrolide antibiotics for outpatient therapy, there was a significant decline in the frequency of erythromycin resistance among group A streptococci isolated from throat swabs and pus samples.
Dietary consumption of L. rhamnosus HN001, in a base of low-fat milk or lactose-hydrolyzed low-fat milk, appears to enhance systemic cellular immune responses and may be useful as a dietary supplement to boost natural immunity.
Iron-zinc supplementation was effective in raising Hb and serum ferritin values among women who were iron deficient in early pregnancy but not among iron sufficient women.
Joint iron and zinc supplementation appears to be a better option than iron-only supplementation in malaria-endemic areas.
Prenatal zinc or vitamin A supplementation demonstrates a small but significant effect on birth length, but supplementation with zinc, vitamin A or a combination of zinc and vitamin A, have no effect on birth weight, neonatal morbidity, or mortality.
Adding Zn supplementation during pregnancy to routine care of women with a previous preterm delivery had no significant effect on the gestational age at delivery and birth weight but increased the birth head circumference.
In rural Nepal, antenatal supplementation with multiple micronutrients can ameliorate, to some extent, the burden of deficiency. The implications of such biochemical improvements in the absence of functional and health benefits remain unclear.
Antenatal folic acid-iron supplements modestly reduce the risk of low birth weight. Multiple micronutrients confer no additional benefit over folic acid-iron in reducing this risk.
Because absorption of nonheme iron was not substantially greater in pregnant women with depleted iron reserves, prenatal iron supplementation is important for meeting iron requirements during pregnancy.
These hematologic changes are congruent with the effects of iron supplementation reported in placebo-controlled trials and the addition of zinc did not significantly affect them.
Daily zinc supplementation in women with relatively low plasma zinc concentrations in early pregnancy is associated with greater infant birth weights and head circumferences, with the effect occurring predominantly in women with a body mass index less than 26 kg/m2.
Counseling sessions on infant's first 4 months were an efficacious strategy to prevent the introduction of non-breast milk and complementary foods in the 6 months of life.
Brief specific interventions added to well-child care may affect obesogenic infant feeding behaviors of mothers and deserves further study as an inexpensive approach to preventing childhood obesity.
Breastfeeding educators can more likely improve the EBF duration by addressing these salient beliefs. Identified beliefs provide a basis for the development of a quantitative instrument to further study the EBF behaviour.
Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 mo is associated with a lower risk of gastrointestinal infection and no demonstrable adverse health effects in the first year of life.
Exclusive breastfeeding is an optimal practice, compared with which other infant feeding practices carry risks. Further studies on the influence of presenting exclusive breastfeeding as the standard in research studies and counseling messages are recommended.
Breastfeeding, particularly when exclusive and prolonged, protects against severe morbidity in contemporary United Kingdom. A population-level increase in exclusive, prolonged breastfeeding would be of considerable potential benefit for public health.
Neonatal weight loss is brief, with few children remaining more than 10% below birth weight after 5 days. Growth charts are misleading in the first 2 weeks, because they make no allowance for neonatal weight loss.
Noninvasive tests such as CPR and platelet count can assist in triaging children for endoscopy to identify esophageal varices.
Benazepril provides protection against the progression of renal insufficiency in patients with various renal diseases.
ACE inhibition in hypertensive ADPKD patients provided long-term reversal of LVH in association with a mean 3.6 ml/min/year decline of Ccr. These preliminary results have potential important implications for cardiovascular and renal protection in ADPKD.
Adding everolimus to octreotide in PLD does not increase the liver volume reducing effect of octreotide.
In patients with polycystic liver, 6 months of treatment with lanreotide reduces liver volume.
Telmisartan seems to be equivalent to enalapril in lowering BP, but telmisartan has more potent renoprotective, anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects than enalapril in patients with hypertensive ADPKD.
The renoprotective effect of candesartan is considered more favorable than amlodipine in the treatment of ADPKD. This is independent of the antihypertensive effect per se.
Octreotide therapy reduces liver volumes in patients with ADPKD and is safe.
In adults with ADPKD and early chronic kidney disease, 18 months of treatment with sirolimus did not halt polycystic kidney growth. (Funded by Wyeth and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Activation of the classic circulating RAS is no greater in hypertensive ADPKD patients than in individuals with essential hypertension.
Increased urinary L-FABP levels may be associated with the development of ADPKD, and candesartan cilexetil has a beneficial effect on reducing these levels.
Pravastatin is an effective agent to slow progression of structural kidney disease in children and young adults with ADPKD. These findings support a role for early intervention with pravastatin in this condition.
The DIPAK 1 Study will show whether subcutaneous administration of lanreotide every 4 weeks attenuates disease progression in patients with ADPKD.
HALT PKD will evaluate potential benefits of rigorous BP control and inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system on kidney disease progression in ADPKD.
This preclinical study provides a strong rationale for assessing the potential value of octreotide in the treatment of PCLDs.
TGB was significantly better than placebo in terms of seizure rate reduction and was generally well-tolerated in patients with difficult to control seizures.
Tiagabine administered 2 and 4 times daily as add-on pharmacotherapy was effective in reducing CPSs in patients with epilepsy whose conditions were refractory to treatment with other antiepileptic agents, and it was well tolerated.
Tiagabine is efficacious and well tolerated as adjunctive therapy for CPS; there is a clear dose-response relationship.
All six drugs were significantly better than placebo at reducing frequency of seizures. These results do not allow an evidence based choice between these drugs as we have no conclusive indication of differences in efficacy or tolerability.
Infants randomized to Epo increased reticulocyte counts and hematocrits without adverse effects. Erythropoietin administration may provide an adjunct to present care in decreasing or eliminating erythrocyte transfusions in surgical neonates.
R-HuEpo seems to reduce the number of days in oxygen for ill VLBW infants. These data could be used to construct a larger multicentre study to evaluate this effect further.
Using a dose of rHuEpo of 600 U/kg per week, this study has shown a clear reduction in the requirement for blood transfusion in preterm infants.
Enteral administration of rhEPO in preterm infants resulted in increase in serum erythropoietin and reticulocyte counts at the time of discharge without significantly affecting hemoglobin or hematocrit.
Oral vitamin E supplementation at 50 IU/day does not increase the response of preterm infants to erythropoietin and iron. Vitamin E obtained through standard nutrition may have been sufficient or higher doses may be required.
Both extremes and fluctuations of PaCO2 are associated with severe intraventricular hemorrhage. It may be prudent to avoid extreme hypocapnia and hypercapnia during the period of risk for intraventricular hemorrhage.
The data demonstrate that severe hypocapnia results in increased Bax expression, DNA fragmentation, and membrane lipid peroxidation in mitochondria of cerebral cortical neurons of newborn piglets, and may result in apoptotic cell death.
Transcutaneous monitoring of CO2 tension improves short-term respiratory outcome in neonates receiving mechanical ventilation during transport.
Further study to evaluate intermittent TCCO2 as a practical clinical variable is warranted. This study should encourage refinement of the technology to be more accurate for this use.
Petco2 had an unacceptable under-recording bias. TcPco2 should currently be considered the preferred method of non-invasive CO2 monitoring for neonatal transport.
Transcutaneous carbon dioxide, tidal volume, and minute ventilation may assist in refining strategies to identify optimal lung volume.
This study shows that hypocapnia is a relatively uncommon finding during neonatal ventilation. The higher incidence of hypercapnia may suggest that permissive hypercapnia has found its way into daily clinical practice.
Hypocarbia produced by treatment with HFJV during the first 3 days of life is associated with the subsequent development of CPVL. The mechanisms for the development of CPVL among premature infants treated with HFJV need to be established.
In spite of a high frequency of atopy and a relatively humid climate in the Sydney area, Aspergillus colonisation and ABPA in CF patients was not disproportionate. Moreover, criteria for reporting of ABPA in this setting was not different from that in the Northern Hemisphere.
Treating children with non-severe pneumonia and wheeze with a placebo is not equivalent to treatment with oral amoxycillin.
The administration of propranolol to burned children receiving rhGH is safe, has salutary cardiovascular effects, decreases the release of FFA from adipose tissue and increases the efficiency of the liver in secreting fatty acids as VLDL TGs.
The new versions of the severity systems analyzed (APACHE III, SAPS II, MPM II) perform better than their older counterparts (APACHE II, SAPS I, and MPM I). APACHE II, SAPS II, and MPM II show good discrimination and calibration in this international database.
In children with burns, treatment with propranolol during hospitalization attenuates hypermetabolism and reverses muscle-protein catabolism.
As a conclusion of our study, we found that respiratory muscle strength improved by inspiratory and expiratory muscle training in patients with slowly progressive neuromuscular disease.
The available evidence is limited, but relevant for clinicians. Future studies should be preferably multicentered, and use an international classification of the variables of exercise therapy and an ICF core set for NMD in order to improve comparability of results.
The partial home program of interval-based IMT associated with BR is feasible and effective in patients with generalized MG. Improvements in respiratory muscle strength, chest wall mobility, respiratory pattern, and respiratory endurance were observed.
The present study shows that in patients with neuromuscular disease, elastic load and respiratory muscle weakness are responsible for a rapid and shallow breathing pattern leading to chronic CO(2) retention.
This study shows an association between training through a specific device and improved lung function. Further trials are needed to confirm this report.
Both manual and powered toothbrushes reduced pocket depth, plaque index and BOP. The powered toothbrush significantly reduced mean gingival index and probing attachment level. The greatest benefit of the powered brush was at mandibular and lingual surfaces.
The present study, taken with results from others showing greater benefits from the use of electric brushes, supports the idea that dental professionals should, where possible, provide advice and instruction in the use of such devices.
The data from this study show that the design and action of the Braun Oral-B 3D Excel power toothbrush are more effective in resolving gingivitis than the Sonicare & the Philips Sensiflex 2000 power toothbrushes.
In our preliminary experience, pre-vertebroplasty injection of intrasomatic corticosteroid in comparison to vertebroplasty alone is able to increase the early pain relief of the procedure.
TFR is a unique immune-mediated phenomenon noted with lenalidomide treatment only in patients with CLL that correlates with clinical response. It can be effectively managed with anti-inflammatory agents.
Preoperative intravenous dexamethasone (8 mg) can significantly reduce the incidence of PONV and pain in patients undergoing mastectomy with axillary dissection for breast cancer.
Mobile technology does not improve asthma control or increase self efficacy compared with paper based monitoring when both groups received clinical care to guidelines standards. The mobile technology was not cost effective.
Telehealth is associated with lower mortality and emergency admission rates. The reasons for the short term increases in admissions for the control group are not clear, but the trial recruitment processes could have had an effect.
Based on these findings, no impairment in glucose dynamics could be demonstrated in chronically colchicine treated patients, compared to untreated controls.
Colchicine treatment failure in FMF is associated with inadequate colchicine MNC concentration, probably resulting from a genetic defect unrelated to the underlying FMF.
In the absence of high-grade evidence, these results could serve as a basis for therapeutic guidelines and to identify candidate drugs for future therapeutic trials.
A prodromal period heralding attacks is a newly defined and reliable FMF manifestation that reproducibly predicts attacks and may help prevent attacks and elucidate the pathogenesis of the disease.
Oral colchicine has unique anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effects with broad ramifications for rheumatic and nonrheumatic disease applications. Significant advances in the last decade have increased understanding of predictors of both colchicine efficacy and toxicity.
Substance misuse is present in the majority of people with first-episode psychosis and has major implications for management. The association between age at first substance use and first psychotic symptoms has public health implications.
The preferential sensitivity of the ventral striatum to the DA releasing effects of AMPH previously demonstrated in experimental animals extends to humans. The magnitude of ventral striatal DA release correlates positively with the hedonic response to AMPH.
Substance abuse is strongly associated with medication noncompliance among patients with schizophrenia. The combination of substance abuse, medication noncompliance, and lack of outpatient contact appears to define a particularly high-risk group.
This study confirms the high rates of substance misuse, in particular cannabis, in first-episode psychosis. Implications for treatment are addressed.
Substance misuse is an independent risk factor for a problematic recovery from first-episode psychosis.
Two-dimensional ultrasound prelocated central venous catheterization in infants and children is convenient and can markedly increase cannulation success rate and reduce the incidence of complications.
Ultrasound-guided cannulation of the internal jugular vein significantly improves success rate, decreases access time, and reduces complication rate. These results suggest that this technique may be preferred in complicated cases or when access problems are anticipated.
The use of an audio-guided Doppler ultrasound vascular access device was associated with increased success of cannulation and a decreased frequency of significant complications in a population of high-risk patients with obesity or coagulopathy.
These results are different from the published results on which the NICE guidelines were based; however, the evidence base in children is small. There is currently insufficient evidence to support the use of ultrasound guidance for central venous catheterization in children.
Intensivists can increase successful internal jugular vein cannulation using ultrasound guidance. Two-dimensional ultrasound should be considered for patients difficult to cannulate or those at high risk of cannulation complications.
Real-time USG guidance improves success rates, reduces the number of attempts and decreases the complications associated with CVC insertion, especially for the IJV, and should become the standard of care in intensive care.
Left IJV cannulation is more time consuming than RIJV cannulation and is associated with a higher incidence of complications. The use of ultrasound improves success rate and decreases the number of complications during IJV cannulation.
Ultrasound guidance reduces both the duration of time and the number of punctures required to cannulate the internal jugular vein. The Seldinger technique appears safer for catheterization of the internal jugular vein.
Ultrasound-guided cannulation of the internal jugular or femoral vein by inexperienced residents appears to be more reliable than the LM or UM methods and was associated with a lower mechanical complication rate among ICU patients.
US-guided CVC affords an easier, safer and more rapid cannulation of a central vein. It is especially helpful in those patients with anatomical variation or difficult veins (small or not visible, non-palpable landmarks) and in those with coagulative disorders.
Ultrasound improves success rate, minimizes cannulation time and complications during internal jugular vein cannulation. It can be employed as a rescue technique in cases of a failed landmark technique.
Several rigorous studies do not support the use of anticoagulants for the prevention of CVC-associated thrombosis. Treatment of CVC-associated thrombosis relies on the same principles as those applied in the treatment of established thrombosis in cancer patients.
Claims related to central catheters had a high severity of patient injury. The most common complications causing injury were wire/catheter embolus, cardiac tamponade, carotid artery puncture/cannulation, hemothorax, and pneumothorax.
The use of UG during CP is infrequent despite the demonstrated benefits of this technology. Multiple knowledge and attitudinal barriers to the greater use of UG during CP must be addressed in the design of an effective UG implementation strategy.
Evidence supports the use of two dimensional ultrasonography for central venous cannulation.
The cost of ultrasound guidance was not mitigated by its reduction in the cost of treating pneumothoraces.
These definitions and recommendations based on a critical evidence review and expert consensus are proposed to assist clinicians in ultrasound-guided vascular access and as a reference for future clinical research.
Doppler guidance reduces the incidence of inappropriately positioned subclavian catheters.
When used for vessel location and catheter placement real-time, ultrasound guidance or Doppler ultrasound guidance improves success rates and decreases the complications associated with internal jugular and subclavian venous catheter placement.
LAMP did not improve success of USGPIVA in variably experienced operators. Experience was associated with higher rates of success for USGPIVA.
Among adults receiving CVC, RTUS was associated with decreased risks of cannulation failure, arterial puncture, hematoma, and hemothorax. Additional data of randomized studies are necessary to evaluate these outcomes in pediatric patients.
The proprioceptive muscle stretching and strengthening aspects of physiotherapy have a beneficial effect at three months sufficient to permit discharge from physiotherapy. These benefits are maintained at one year. Taping does not influence the outcome.
A proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation intervention protocol combined with aerobic exercise showed a better outcome than a classic stretching protocol after four months.
Similar changes in pain reduction, functional improvement, and VMO hypertrophy were observed in both exercise groups. Incorporating hip adduction with leg-press exercise had no impact on outcome in patients with PFPS.
On the basis of these results, the authors conclude that both open kinetic chain and closed kinetic chain programs lead to an equal long-term good functional outcome.
A six-treatment, 6-week physical therapy regimen is efficacious for alleviation of patellofemoral pain.
The AKPS and VAS for usual or worst pain are reliable, valid, and responsive and are therefore recommended for future clinical trials or clinical practice in assessing treatment outcome in persons with patellofemoral pain.
Exercise is the more effective treatment for immediate decrease in pain and increase in function although these differences appear to be less distinguishable over time.
The different imputation methods gave very different results. Contrary to widely stated claims, LOCF did not produce a conservative (i.e., lower) efficacy estimate compared to MI. Also, LOCF had a lower SE than MI.
The seven-year overall outcome was good in approximately two-thirds of the patients. However, the remaining patients still had symptoms or objective signs of a patellofemoral abnormality.
The 5 functional tests proved to have good intrarater reliability and were related to changes in pain. Future research is needed to examine interrater reliability, validity, and sensitivity of these clinical tests.
Caffeine therapy for apnea of prematurity reduces the rate of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in infants with very low birth weight. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Caffeine therapy for apnea of prematurity improves the rate of survival without neurodevelopmental disability at 18 to 21 months in infants with very low birth weight. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Intramuscular administration of 5000 IU of vitamin A three times per week for four weeks reduced biochemical evidence of vitamin A deficiency and slightly decreased the risk of chronic lung disease in extremely-low-birth-weight infants.
This study, confirms that an extremely low birth weight implies a high risk of perinatal mortality and neonatal morbidity, but that the most significant variable that can be correlated to the long-term neurological outcome is the gestational age.
The physiologic definition of BPD is safe, feasible, reliable, and valid and improves the precision of the diagnosis of BPD. This may be of benefit in future multicenter clinical trials.
The family-directed program was associated with reduced smoking onset for non-Hispanic Whites, suggesting that it is worthy of further application, development, and evaluation.
The variables hypothesized to explain program effects were not identified by direct empirical examination.
CACE modeling techniques enable researchers to examine factors that predict engagement with core intervention components and to examine intervention effects specifically for youth who engaged with those components.
A family-oriented, web-based substance use prevention program was efficacious in preventing substance use behavior among early Asian-American adolescent girls.
Including parent add-on components in school-based smoking prevention programs can reduce smoking behavior on the part of inner-city middle school youths.
The Smoke-free Kids program shows promising short-term effects on antismoking socialization and cognitions. Long-term follow-up on the effects of smoking behavior are needed.
This program of prenatal and early childhood home visitation by nurses can reduce reported serious antisocial behavior and emergent use of substances on the part of adolescents born into high-risk families.
Study findings modestly support the CD-ROM intervention with and without the parent intervention to reduce alcohol use risks among urban early adolescents.
Strategies to prevent tobacco cigarette smoking should include both a focus on depressed mood in adolescence as well as on early success in elementary school.
School-based drug prevention programs can prevent occasional and more serious drug use, help low- to high-risk adolescents, and be effective in diverse school environments.
Comprehensive social influence school curricula against substance misuse in adolescence may perform differently among girls and boys, owing to developmental and personality factors.
Using the CTC system can produce enduring reductions in community-wide levels of risk factors and problem behaviors among adolescents beyond the years of supported implementation, potentially contributing to long-term public health benefits.
School-based programs similar to the intervention examined here should be considered as part of a multistrategy approach to reducing tobacco use among young people in India.
These results suggest that the California Tobacco Control Program may have reduced adult smoking prevalence rates and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.
Community-based implementation of brief universal interventions designed for general populations has potential for public health impact by reducing substance use among adolescents.
Parental smoking cessation is associated with reduced risk of their children's daily smoking. Parents who quit still place children at substantially higher risk compared to parents who never smoked.
The effect of a zinc-containing compound, Polaprezinc, was shown to clinically improve the disease conditions of idiopathic taste disorders with no serious side effects in a well controlled double-blinded clinical study.
THC may be useful in the palliation of chemosensory alterations and to improve food enjoyment for cancer patients.
This pharmacologic therapy is effective and well tolerated; it could become a routine in clinical practice to improve the supportive care of patients with taste alterations resulting from head and neck cancer.
Intranasal theophylline treatment is safer and more effective in improving hyposmia and hypogeusia than oral theophylline anhydrous treatment.
Dysgeusia is a common oral side effect of cancer therapy (radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or combined modality therapy) and often impacts negatively on quality of life. From the current literature, there does not appear to be a predictable way of preventing or treating dysgeusia.
PGB, 150 mg/day and 600 mg/day, is highly effective and well-tolerated add-on therapy in patients with partial seizures.
Physically active classroom lessons provide a buffer to prevent the steep reduction in TOT experienced after a period of inactivity in all children, especially those who are overweight.
School-based interventions can improve health and academic performance among low-income schoolchildren.
The program reduced BMI and improved health knowledge, sleep, and academic performance in obese children. The feasibility of a beneficial lifestyle intervention program is encouraging in addressing obesity and related issues in young boys and girls.
This multidimensional intervention was equally and for some adiposity measures even more effective in high-risk preschoolers and represents a promising option for these children.
The attenuated age-related increases in percentage of body fat and enhanced numeracy development among elementary school children receiving PE from specialists provides support for the role of PE in both preventive medicine and academic development.
A high inclusion rate and low drop out rate was achieved. This study will be the first to determine whether school meals based on the NND improve children's diet, health, growth, cognitive performance, and early disease risk markers.
This study will assess whether MOVI-2 overcomes some potential limitations of physical activity interventions in children (Clinicaltrials.gov number 
SDB during middle- to late-childhood is related to important aspects of behavioral functioning, especially inattention and learning difficulties, that may result in significant functional impairment at school.
The prevalence of the MS is higher in obese as opposed to nonobese subjects and increases with severity of obesity.
The proposed cut off points, which are less arbitrary and more internationally based than current alternatives, should help to provide internationally comparable prevalence rates of overweight and obesity in children.
Disturbed eating and bullying are significantly related to low self-esteem in the overweight group.
Early eating patterns have implications for attainment that appear to persist over time, regardless of subsequent changes in diet.
Promoting nutrition and physical activity within the school environment may be a promising approach for enhancing both student health and educational outcomes.
The long-term risks associated with higher levels of early exposure may chart developmental pathways toward unhealthy dispositions in adolescence. A population-level understanding of such risks remains essential for promoting child development.
We encourage clinicians and researchers to track youth longitudinally throughout treatment to investigate not only youth's BMI changes, but also psychosocial changes including QOL.
Cognitive functioning in children is adversely affected by frequent health-related problems, such as obesity and SDB. Furthermore, poorer integrative mental processing may place a child at a bigger risk for adverse health outcomes.
In young infants, even those born prematurely, heliox breathing induced a rapid reduction in accessory muscles use and expiratory wheezing. Further studies are needed to confirm the decreased respiratory muscle work of breathing during heliox inhalation in this population.
Heliox therapy does not reduce LoT unless given via a tight-fitting facemask or CPAP. Nasal cannula heliox therapy is ineffective.
Respiratory system resistance is significantly decreased by mechanical ventilation with heliox (ISCRTN98152468).
This study did not detect any differences between the patients in the helium group and the control group with respect to the rate of positive-pressure ventilation.
In the pediatric patient with severe asthma requiring conventional mechanical ventilation, helium-oxygen administration appears to be a safe therapy and may assist in lowering peak inspiratory pressure and improving blood gas pH and partial pressure CO(2).
Heliox increases the effectiveness of NCPAP in the treatment of RDS in premature infants.
Helium-oxygen therapy is a useful adjunct therapy for upper airway obstruction. Controlled clinical trials are necessary to better define the appropriate settings for use of helium-oxygen.
Heliox therapy improved clinical scores in infants and children with upper and lower airway respiratory insufficiency, but a significant percentage of patients needed non-invasive or invasive mechanical ventilation.
In infants with respiratory distress who do not tolerate a facemask, the use of nasal cannula represents a viable and efficacious alternative for heliox delivery.
Children with bronchopulmonary dysplasia have high rates of RSV hospitalization until 24 months of age. In contrast, after the first year of life, children with congenital heart disease or prematurity have rates no higher than that of children at low risk who are <12 months old.
Use of HFNC for oxygen administration is feasible for infants with moderate-severe bronchiolitis in a general pediatric ward. In these children, HFNC therapy improves oxygen saturation levels and seems to be associated with a decrease in both ETCO2 and RR.
Currently, there are no clearly effective interventions available to improve the outcome of critically ill infants with bronchiolitis. Surfactant seems to be a promising intervention, and corticosteroids or ribavirin may also be beneficial.
In premature infants (32-35 WGA), only 3 independent risk factors were found to significantly increase the risk of RSV-related respiratory infection and hospitalization.
Specific host/environmental factors can be used to identify which 33-35GA infants are at greatest risk of hospitalization for RSV infection and likely to benefit from palivizumab prophylaxis.
The risk for RSV rehospitalization among premature infants discharged from neonatal care facilities in southern Germany was low. Additional risk factors and high costs of prophylaxis have to be considered when infants are selected for RSV prophylaxis using monoclonal antibodies.
HFNC with a flow rate equal to or above 2 L/kg/min generated a clinically relevant PP, with improved breathing pattern and rapid unloading of respiratory muscles, in young infants with acute RSV bronchiolitis.
Hypoxia on admission, a history of apnea or respiratory arrest, and pulmonary consolidation should be considered in the management of children with RSV LRIs. Vaccine trials should target patients with underlying heart or lung disease or of aboriginal race.
These findings support the efficacy of cognitive-behavioral interventions in aiding benzodiazepine discontinuation for patients with panic disorder.
Tapering off is a feasible and effective way of discontinuing long-term benzodiazepine use in general practice. The addition of group CBT is of limited value.
Cognitive behavioral treatment administered in parallel with alprazolam maintenance and taper was effective in preventing relapse after drug discontinuation. The results warrant further research on the thoughtful integration of these two therapeutic modalities.
It was concluded that tailored patient education can be an effective tool for reducing benzodiazepine use, and can be implemented easily.
The search continues for improved methods of helping patients with complicated benzodiazepine dependence.
Across groups, reduction in the fear of anxiety symptoms was the best predictor of patients' ability to achieve and maintain drug abstinence. Some implications of that finding for the pharmacotherapy of panic disorder are discussed.
Benzodiazepine dependence severity affects long-term taper outcome independent of treatment modality, benzodiazepine dosage, psychopathology, and personality characteristics. An identifiable subgroup needs referral to specialized care.
The findings support the use of cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia in hypnotic-dependant older adults.
These results provide evidence that more intensive treatment of insomnia (i.e., 8 sessions of SR+HW plus hypnotic withdrawal instructions) results in better outcomes than SHE alone.
Supervised benzodiazepine withdrawal augmented with psychotherapy should be considered in older people, although pragmatic reasons may necessitate consideration of other strategies such as medication review.
Evidence was found for the efficacy of stepped care (minimal intervention followed by systematic discontinuation alone) in discontinuing long-term benzodiazepine use.
Providing an intervention is more effective than routine care. Psychological interventions may improve discontinuation above GDR alone. While some substitutive pharmacotherapies may have promise, current evidence is insufficient to support their use.
Even though there is a substantial relapse rate, the intervention to reduce chronic benzodiazepine use remains effective in the long-term.
In subjects with complicated BZ dependence, the benefits of BZ discontinuation treatment may persist, but more studies are needed.
Postural management interventions have an important role in the prevention of hip dysplasia.
In men with recurrent calcium oxalate stones and hypercalciuria, restricted intake of animal protein and salt, combined with a normal calcium intake, provides greater protection than the traditional low-calcium diet.
We conclude that urine volume is a real stone risk factor in nephrolithiasis and that a large intake of water is the initial therapy for prevention of stone recurrences. In cases of hypercalciuria it is suitable to prescribe adjuvant specific diets or drug therapy.
In idiopathic calcium stone formers, neither a LAPD nor a HFD appeared to provide protection against recurrence.
These results show that only ICSFs who markedly decrease their animal protein intake, especially those with hypercalciuria, can expect to benefit from dietary recommendations.
A high dietary calcium intake decreases the risk of symptomatic kidney stones.
An increase in total fluid intake can reduce risk for kidney stones, and the choice of beverage may be meaningful.
Renal handling of dietary calcium and oxalate in South African black and white subjects is different and may explain the different stone incidence in the 2 race groups.
We propose that non-calculous IH may be an important contributing factor to recurrent UTI in children.
Decision analysis consultations enable women to make more informed prenatal diagnosis decisions. Professionals will need training to use this technique effectively.
An information film tended to increase the number of women who made an informed choice about Down syndrome screening. Participants were more satisfied with the information received.
In a pilot study, a multicriteria-based patient decision aid for colorectal cancer screening improved patients' decision-making processes but had no effect on the implementation of screening plans.
Our findings show the benefits of providing evidence-based information to men about PSA screening. Our EB booklet facilitated informed choice, even among "passive" decision-makers.
Use of a decision aid in patients with chest pain increased knowledge and engagement in decision making and decreased the rate of observation unit admission for stress testing.
Entertainment education may be a desirable strategy for informing lower health literate women about breast cancer surgery options.
: The CHOICE study will demonstrate the effect of 2 combined evidence-based interventions on CRC screening test completion among health plan members. Cancer 2010. (c) 2010 American Cancer Society.
Choice-based conjoint analysis produced somewhat different patterns of attribute importance than a rating and ranking task, but had little effect on other outcomes.
These findings may explain why information about the benefits and harms of screening did not reduce diabetes screening attendance in the DICISION trial.
The DA increased knowledge and reduced indecision, without increasing feelings of anxiety.
An interactive multimedia decision aid in the NHS would be popular with patients, reduce decisional conflict, and let patients play a more active part in decision making without increasing anxiety. The use of web based technology would reduce the cost of the intervention.
A decision aid is an effective and acceptable tool for pregnant women that provides an important adjunct to standard counselling for the management of breech presentation.
A computerized decision aid, used outside of the primary care consultation, is effective in increasing patient involvement in decision making in primary care.
PDSs using any of 3 formats reduce uncertainty and assist women to make informed decisions. Increased consistency with decision analytic models appears to be driven by better estimates of likelihood of outcomes.
When used in a primary care setting, an illustrated pamphlet decision-aid was effective in increasing knowledge of prostate cancer screening tests but did not change the use of these tests.
Our interactive computer-based decision aid facilitates SDM, but overall effectiveness is determined by the extent to which providers comply with patient preferences.
Decision aid-assisted SDM has a modest impact on CRC screening uptake. A decision aid plus personalized risk assessment tool is no more effective than a decision aid alone.
Patient education regarding the potential benefits and harms of early detection of prostate cancer can lead to more informed decision making. Incorporating the PSA videotape into the periodic health examination for asymptomatic men aged 50 years and older is recommended.
Decision aids for prostate cancer screening can have a long-term effect on screening behavior and appear to promote informed decision making.
A decision aid for individuals considering genetic testing for HNPCC is an effective intervention to reduce uncertainty and assist individuals to make an informed choice regarding genetic testing for HNPCC after genetic counseling.
Delivery of decision aids by clinicians during the visit improves knowledge and shows a trend toward better acceptability and less decisional conflict.
Preliminary evidence suggests that decision aids do not have a large negative impact on trust in the physician and may increase trust through improvements in the decision-making process.
A decision aid enhanced decision making about statin drugs and may have favorably affected drug adherence.
The decision board was helpful in improving communication and enabling women to make a choice regarding treatment. Such instruments should be considered by surgeons when communicating the different surgical options to women with breast cancer.
Women made more informed decisions when provided with an evidence-based decision-aid leaflet preceding a routine consultation about choices of termination method.
An interventional strategy that focused on doctor-patient communication and patient empowerment is an effective concept to reduce antibiotic prescriptions in primary care.
SDM with FMS patients might be a possible means to achieve a positive quality of physician-patient interaction. A specific SDM communication training program teaches physicians to perform SDM and reduces frustration in patients.
A collaboratively developed DA designed to create a conversation about diabetes medications may lead to more patient-centered treatment choices.
This short intervention successfully shifted patient and doctor behaviour closer to the shared decision-making model, although it did not alter patients' preferences for information or involvement.
The intervention provides realistic, unbiased and effective decision support for men facing a difficult and confusing decision.
Preference regarding cancer screening and treatment is greatly affected by information about medical uncertainties. Because informed patient choices vary. PSA screening decisions should incorporate individual preferences.
Use of a booklet on respiratory tract infections in children within primary care consultations led to important reductions in antibiotic prescribing and reduced intention to consult without reducing satisfaction with care.
Overall, the video was significantly more effective than the Internet in educating participants about benefits and risks of PSA screening.
Further examination of the efficacy of the spiritually based approach to health communication is warranted.
Whilst both the leaflet and the parent meeting reduced parents' decisional conflict, the parent meeting appeared to enable parents to act upon their decision leading to vaccination uptake.
Use of a visual aid improved mothers' knowledge and showed promise as a decision aid for counseling at the threshold of viability.
The CDSS algorithm, utilizing measurement-based care, was superior to usual care for patients with MDD in primary care settings. Larger randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm these findings.
The intervention increased the selection of condoms and reduced the selection of IUDs, especially among women with cervical infections, for whom IUD insertion is contraindicated.
Targeted and tailored interventions were found to increase colorectal cancer screening use. However, additional research is needed to determine how to increase the effect of such interventions in primary care.
EHR-based diabetes clinical decision support significantly improved glucose control and some aspects of blood pressure control in adults with type 2 diabetes.
Personalized risk communication was preferred by patients and had a small impact on risk reduction preferences and decision conflict but had no impact on patient beliefs or behavior compared with standard risk factor education.
The utility of this web-based decision support in two trials depended on a number of factors that appear related to the urgency of making a decision.
Adding a VC intervention to a DA did not further improve decision-making outcomes in a population of highly educated and motivated adults responding to scenario-based questions. Work is needed to determine the effects of VC on more diverse populations and more distal outcomes.
Presentation format (information framing) strongly determines patient decision-making in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Subject age, gender, and education level may also influence the decision. Clinicians should consider the influence of these variables when counseling patients.
Individualized evidence-based information stimulated patients' active involvement but in the context of our study led to less patient-based decisions. Patient-made decisions and patient autonomy should, however, not be equated.
A targeted telephone care-management program was successful in reducing medical costs and hospitalizations in this population-based study. (Funded by Health Dialog Services; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
This study demonstrated that clients can build their own care plans and negotiate and revise them with their case managers using an EDSS.
A mailed video had no effect on the overall rate of colorectal cancer screening and only modestly improved sigmoidoscopy screening rates among patients in primary care practices.
Pictographs make risk statistics easier to interpret, reducing biases associated with incremental risk presentations.
Interventions to help patients make choices have different purposes, component parts and outcomes to those facilitating professional-patient communications. The IPDAS checklist will change to respond to new evidence from the decision sciences.
The scale is a useful indicator of health care decision regret at a given point in time.
There is considerable consensus regarding the indications for, content and criteria for evaluating decision aids which should be considered when developing aids relevant to the needs of clinicians and patients.
Canadians, particularly women, face difficult decisions and need support and information from credible sources.
In a high-prevalence population, PillCam ESO may represent an accurate noninvasive alternative to EGD for the detection of esophageal varices and portal hypertensive gastropathy. A large-scale trial is underway to validate and expand these findings.
Capsule endoscopy was feasible, safe, accurate, highly acceptable, and preferred by cirrhotic patients undergoing screening for portal hypertension. This new technique requires further and more extensive evaluation, as well as assessment of its cost-effectiveness.
This large multicenter study confirms the safety and acceptable accuracy of ECE for the evaluation of esophageal varices. ECE might be proposed as an alternative to EGD for the screening of portal hypertension, especially in patients unable or unwilling to undergo EGD.
ECE may be used in the assessment of EV. It appears to have more discordance with EGD when evaluating smaller varices. The minimal discomfort, lack of sedation, and decreased risk make ECE a possible substitute to EGD in patients unable or unwilling to undergo EGD.
String-capsule endoscopy was feasible, safe, accurate, highly acceptable, and preferred by cirrhotic patients undergoing screening/surveillance of esophageal varices. The technique may prove to be more cost effective than conventional EGD.
This study indicates that discriminating EV size by the current capsule scale is unreliable. Lowering the grading threshold improved the ability to discriminate EV size by CE. In the proper context, CE is an alternative to EGD to screen for EV.
Screening for varices is an affordable strategy in compensated liver disease, whereas universal primary prophylaxis with beta-blockers is cost-effective in decompensated patients.
HVPG reduction to </=12 mm Hg or by >/=20% significantly reduces the risk of bleeding, and a reduction of >/=20% significantly reduces mortality. These hemodynamic targets should be considered for clinical practice and for randomized controlled trials.
Banding ligation and beta-blockers may be used as primary prophylaxis in high-risk esophageal varices. The estimated effect of banding ligation in some trials may be biased and was associated with the duration of follow-up. Further high-quality trials are still needed.
Nonselective beta-blockers are ineffective in preventing varices in unselected patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension and are associated with an increased number of adverse events. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Our results provide economic and clinical support for primary prophylaxis of esophageal variceal bleeding in patients with hepatic cirrhosis. Universal prophylaxis with beta-blocker is preferred because it is consistently associated with the lowest costs and highest QALYs.
The preliminary outcome data supports conducting the large randomized trial, which began in July of 1998. The protocols for the ventilator management of VLBW infants, both with HFOV and with SIMV were easily implemented and consistently followed, and are presented here.
There were no significant adverse effects of HFOV on systemic blood flow in very preterm infants during the first 24 hours of life.
Premature infants treated with inhaled nitric oxide have improved neurodevelopmental outcomes at two years of age.
The use of inhaled nitric oxide in premature infants with the respiratory distress syndrome decreases the incidence of chronic lung disease and death.
Initial ventilation with HFOV in preterm infants with severe RDS reduces the incidence of death and BPD, and improves long-term neurodevelopment outcomes. (ClinicalTrials.gov 
The results of this randomized clinical trial support the hypothesis that early and exclusive use of HFOV, combined with optimum volume strategy, has a beneficial effect during the acute phase of lung injury.
Heterogeneity among trials of elective HFV compared to CMV in preterm infants is mainly due to differences in ventilatory strategies. Optimising CMV strategy appeared to be as effective as using HFV in improving pulmonary outcome in preterm infants.
Despite an increase in CRF at one month, there were no statistically significant changes in CH and CRF measurements 1 year after CXL. Development of other in vivo biomechanical metrics would aid in evaluating the corneal response to CXL.
After CXL, the cornea thins and then recovers toward baseline thickness. The cause and implications of corneal thickness changes after CXL remain to be elucidated.
Corneal collagen cross-linkage appears to be an effective and safe modality to halt the progression of keratoconus. Improvements in visual and topographic parameters are seen in some eyes.
At 36 months, there was a sustained improvement in Kmax, UCVA, and BSCVA after CXL, whereas eyes in the control group demonstrated further progression.
Preliminary results of this randomized controlled trial suggest a temporary stabilization of all treated eyes after CXL.
The PRK plus CXL procedure may be a good option to reduce corneal aberrations and stabilize corneas with progressive keratoconus.
ORA parameters demonstrate significant differences between KC and non-KC eyes. Both CH and CRF present significant correlations with visual acuity and corneal parameters. CXL exerts a non-significant impact on ORA measurements.
UV-A-riboflavin CXL seems to be a safe procedure that does not cause damage to the corneal endothelium and central retina.
CXL procedure is a safe treatment for keratoconus, yields good visual results, and reduces the progression of the disease, but long follow-up is necessary.
Corneal thickness decreases significantly during CXL, even to a level where the health of the endothelium and cornea is jeopardized. Visual performance is improved 6 months after CXL.
Combined ICRS and CXL treatment with intracorneal riboflavin injection was effective in keratoconic eyes. Intracorneal riboflavin injection into the tunnel was safe and may provide more penetration without epithelial removal.
After cross-linking, the corneal shape undergoes a process of regularization. This process is active during the first year after treatment and may continue. Longer follow-up is warranted to estimate the full amount of regression of the keratectasia after CXL.
The preliminary results suggest that traditional CXL induced marked corneal modifications, which were poorly evident in the transepithelial group.
Reduction in anterior and intermediate stromal keratocytes followed by gradual repopulation has been confirmed directly in vivo in humans by HRT II-RCM confocal microscopy after riboflavin-UVA-induced corneal collagen cross-linking.
Corneal topography and pachymetry are indispensable tools in the preoperative screening of refractive surgery candidates.
Asymmetric Intacs implantation can improve both uncorrected and best spectacle-corrected visual acuity and can reduce irregular astigmatism in corneas with and without corneal scarring.
Cross-sectional and longitudinal data showed significant differences between groups in the 3 indices. Use of this classification scheme might form a basis for detecting subclinical keratoconus.
With these early results, Ferrara intrastromal ring segments appear to be an alternative for the treatment of severe keratoconus.
The conductive keratoplasty procedure produced collagen "crumpling and splitting" changes in human corneas, which were observed during the follow-up of 6 months. Areas adjacent to treatment site were minimally damaged.
Despite the low number of patients with a follow-up longer than 3 years, results indicate long-term stabilization and improvement after collagen crosslinking. Thus, collagen crosslinking is an effective therapeutical option for progressive keratoconus.
Three-dimensional thickness mapping of the epithelial, stromal, and total corneal thickness profiles characterized thickness changes associated with keratoconus and may help in early diagnosis of keratoconus.
The neural networks completely distinguished KC from KCS and from topographies that resembled KC. The network approach equaled the sensitivity of currently used tests for keratoconus detection and outperformed them in terms of accuracy and specificity.
Significant differences in keratometry, pachymetry, and ACD results were found between AS-OCT and Scheimpflug imaging. However, the repeatability of the measurements was comparable.
CXL improved UCVA and BSCVA in the study patients, most likely by significantly reducing corneal asymmetry and corneal as well as total wavefront aberrations.
Naltrexone improves clinical and inflammatory activity of subjects with moderate to severe Crohn's disease compared to placebo-treated controls. Strategies to alter the endogenous opioid system provide promise for the treatment of Crohn's disease.
Naltrexone therapy seems safe with limited toxicity when given to children with Crohn's disease and may reduce disease activity.
Given the increased expression of MOR and the ex vivo beneficial effect of DALDA in active IBD, natural and/or synthetic opioid agonists could help to prevent overt pathological intestinal inflammation.
LDN therapy appears effective and safe in subjects with active Crohn's disease. Further studies are needed to explore the use of this compound.
At 2 years, belatacept-based regimens sustained better renal function, similar patient/graft survival, and an improved cardiovascular/metabolic risk profile versus CsA; outcomes that were maintained in EBV (+) patients. No new safety signals emerged.
At month 12, belatacept regimens were associated with better cardiovascular and metabolic risk profiles, with lower blood pressure and serum lipids and less NODAT versus CsA. The overall profile of belatacept will continue to be assessed over the 3-year trials.
The study identifies a potentially safe and feasible method for switching stable renal transplant patients from a cyclosporine- or tacrolimus-based regimen to a belatacept-based regimen, which may allow improved renal function in patients currently treated with CNIs.
Chronic allograft nephropathy represents cumulative and incremental damage to nephrons from time-dependent immunologic and nonimmunologic causes.
Seven years after psychoeducational group therapy, significant effects on the long-term course of the illness can be found. Therefore, the integration of psychoeducation into standard therapy for schizophrenia should become obligatory.
Both brief group CBT and group PE improve subjective QoL in patients with schizophrenia.
Although there were no statistically significant differences the results show impressive longterm effects of psychoeducational training.
A short patient and relative education programme seems to be able to influence knowledge and some aspects of satisfaction, but does not seem to be sufficient to influence important variables such as relapse, compliance, psychopathology, insight or psychosocial functioning.
The study provides evidence that mutual support groups can be an effective family intervention for Chinese persons with mental illness in terms of improving patients' functioning and hospitalization without increasing their use of mental health services.
Mutual support for families of Chinese people with schizophrenia can substantially benefit family and patient functioning and caregiver burden.
The findings provide evidence that the mindfulness-based education program can improve Chinese schizophrenia sufferers' psychosocial functioning and reduce their illness relapse.
These findings suggest that a culturally sensitive psychoeducational intervention is a useful short-term treatment modality for Korean Americans with a diagnosis of schizophrenia.
Family intervention is an effective method of improving treatment compliance and should be an important part of community mental health care.
Inpatient family intervention results in clinically meaningful outcomes for certain subgroups of patients and their families.
The PRP was effective in detecting prodromal symptoms of relapse early in an episode. Crisis intervention including increased antipsychotic medication use during the prodromal phase reduced relapse and rehospitalization rates.
The results support the effectiveness of compliance therapy in improving functioning and community tenure after an acute psychotic episode.
Early HIV diagnosis and early antiretroviral therapy reduced early infant mortality by 76% and HIV progression by 75%. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The use of combination therapy including protease inhibitors has markedly reduced mortality among children and adolescents infected with HIV-1.
Since 1988, there has been a substantial increase in short-term and long-term survival of kidney grafts from both living and cadaveric donors.
Despite differences between nurseries in infant characteristics and in protocol implementation, the feeding regimen effect was consistent for caloric intake and weight gain. Further support was found for the development of infant self-regulatory capacity.
Demand feeding provides superior volume per feed, and feeding speed and shortens the duration of feeding compared to feeding on a routine schedule. It is suitable and feasible for healthy premature newborns.
Surfactant treatment of severe bronchiolitis appeared to improve gas exchange, reduce PIP and shorten CPPV and ICU stay. However, these initial results must be confirmed by a larger and more rigorously controlled study.
Consistent with our previous study and others, this study shows that surfactant therapy improves gas exchange and respiratory mechanics and shortens CMV and intensive care unit stay in infants with severe RSV-induced respiratory failure.
Evidence shows the effectiveness and superiority of adrenaline for outcomes of most clinical relevance among outpatients with acute bronchiolitis, and evidence from a single precise trial for combined adrenaline and dexamethasone.
Clinical trials suggest that the higher surfactant protein-B content in calfactant, and perhaps the higher phospholipid content in poractant (at higher initial dose), are the factors that most likely confer the observed advantage over other surfactant preparations.
Short-course regimens of 9 months' duration are effective in the treatment of tuberculoma of the brain; clinical recovery was faster than scan clearance.
The two rifapentine regimens were unsatisfactory because of their high incidence of adverse events. Isoniazid appeared not to contribute to preventing relapse. Further studies with increased rifapentine dosage are necessary.
The HIV pandemic presents a massive challenge to global TB control. The prevention of HIV and TB, the extension of WHO DOTS programs, and a focused effort to control HIV-related TB in areas of high HIV prevalence are matters of great urgency.
Younger children eliminate INH faster than older children and, as a group, faster than adults, and require a higher mg/kg body weight INH dose to achieve serum concentrations comparable to adults.
Discharge from the ED on home oxygen after a period of observation is an option for patients with acute bronchiolitis. Secondary to the low incidence of complications, the safety of this practice will require a larger study.
A pressure-limiting valve is necessary in a HFNC system. Although mean EEEP levels were similar in NCPAP+6 and HFNC, tachypnea developed as flow diminished. This system apparently cannot predict EEEP, because of interpatient and intrapatient variation.
We found no evidence that increasing consumption of formula/cows' milk in early infancy was associated with insulin resistance in young adulthood.
The previously reported positive effect of prenatal LNS on birth length was not sustained during the postnatal phase. Prenatal LNS does not appear to make a long-lasting difference in child linear growth.
Nutrition education with a focus on promoting consumption of khichuri during the third trimester of pregnancy significantly reduced the rate of low birthweight and increased maternal weight gain.
Modification of maternal diet during pregnancy and breastfeeding may benefit infant metabolic health. High split proinsulin reflects adverse metabolic status in infancy, which can be improved by early dietary counselling.
Dietary counseling throughout pregnancy could help women increase their fish intake. Intake of meat in early pregnancy may increase the gain in fat-free mass during pregnancy.
Yogurt is likely to be a popular substitute for milk and could contribute to increased dairy intake among women if it were an option in WIC.
In this nutritional supplementation trial in an undernourished population, we were unable to confirm relative leg length as a biomarker of childhood nutrition. Alternative explanations may underlie the reported associations between childhood conditions and relative leg length.
Our data do not support the role of maternal nutrition during pregnancy, birth size, or early child growth in programming adult blood pressure. Likewise, we found no effect of protein-energy supplementation in pregnancy or in early childhood on blood pressure in young adults.
Using a low-glycemic index diet for women with GDM effectively halved the number needing to use insulin, with no compromise of obstetric or fetal outcomes.
An educational intervention increased consumption of fish and DHA but not mercury. Future studies are needed to determine intervention effects on pregnancy and childhood health outcomes.
Daily supplementary food containing tempeh and vitamin C-rich fruits during pregnancy might have positive effects on maternal ID.
Restriction of gestational weight gain in obese women is achievable and reduces the deterioration in the glucose metabolism.
Coronary heart disease and type 2 diabetes may originate through two widespread biological phenomena-developmental plasticity and compensatory growth.
Maternal obesity is associated with increased overall risk of infant death, mainly neonatal death.
Peri-conceptional folic acid supplementation reduces stillbirths due to NTDs by approximately 41%, a point estimate recommended for inclusion in LiST.
Belly dance can be used in the treatment of fibromyalgia to reduce pain and improve functional capacity, quality of life and self-image.
An 8-month dance intervention can improve self-rated health for adolescent girls with internalizing problems. The improvement remained a year after the intervention.
The biodanza aquatic exercises improve pain and quality of life in fibromyalgia patients.
Aquatic biodance contributed to improvements in sleep quality, anxiety, pain and other fibromyalgia symptoms.
The studies did not give consistent indications of which interventions may be effective. Carefully designed clinical trials are needed to clarify the effect of single and combined interventions.
The MANSA is a brief instrument for assessing quality of life focusing on satisfaction with life as a whole and with life domains. Its psychometric properties appear satisfactory.
BPT may be an effective treatment for negative symptoms in patients with chronic schizophrenia. The findings should merit further trials with larger sample sizes and detailed studies to explore the therapeutic mechanisms involved.
Chlorhexidine-thymol varnish is effective in preventing caries in permanent first molars.
Chlorhexidine-thymol varnish can be said to reduce caries lesions in the primary molars of schoolchildren ages 6 to 7 with no previous caries lesion experience.
The prevalence of oral pain was high among these children, and had a considerable impact on both the children and their parents.
Twice a year EC40 application on pits and fissures of permanent first molars of 6-7-year-old children can significantly reduce mutans streptococci numbers for a 6-month period, but the reductions were small.
Women who developed pre-eclampsia had significantly higher A1C values before and during pregnancy. These data suggest that optimal glycemic control both early and throughout pregnancy may reduce the risk of pre-eclampsia in women with type 1 diabetes.
The Hp phenotype did not significantly affect pre-eclampsia risk in women with type-1 diabetes.
Maternal plasma vitamin E levels are increased by oral supplementation. Maternal plasma vitamin C and E concentrations correlate with the concentration of vitamin C in the amniotic fluid and vitamin E in the chorioamnion, respectively.
Vitamin C and E supplementation initiated in the 9th to 16th week of pregnancy in an unselected cohort of low-risk, nulliparous women did not reduce the rate of adverse maternal or perinatal outcomes related to pregnancy-associated hypertension (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Our results indicated that elevated tissue PEA and serum oxidative stress levels are closely related to placental abruption. Thus, we think that increased collagen turnover may have a significant role in the aetiopathogenesis of placental abruption.
Trauma-focused CBT within 3 months of a traumatic event appears to be effective for individuals with traumatic stress symptoms, especially those who meet the threshold for a clinical diagnosis.
The results suggest that education is robustly associated with level of cognitive function but not with rate of cognitive decline and that the former association primarily accounts for education's correlation with risk of dementia in old age.
Largely because of the high attack rate, non-influenza-related VRTI imposes a greater economic burden than many other clinical conditions. The pending availability of effective antiviral therapies warrants increased attention be paid to this common and expensive illness.
Australians continue to use high levels of CAMs and CAM therapists. The public is often unaware that CAMs are not tested by the Therapeutic Goods Administration for efficacy or safety.
Prompt treatment of infant botulism type A or type B with BIG-IV was safe and effective in shortening the length and cost of the hospital stay and the severity of illness.
Supportive care and the use of antitoxin have been effective in the treatment of botulism from food-borne, intestinal, and wound exposure. However, the effectiveness of antitoxin in the treatment of inhaled C. botulinum has not been proven.
During influenza seasons, influenza vaccination with or without pneumococcal conjugate vaccination substantially reduced cases of confirmed influenza and AOM episodes.
Both Pnc-T and Pnc-D were well-tolerated, induced serotype-specific anticapsular antibodies and induced immunologic memory.
After heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine introduction, children were less likely to develop frequent otitis media or have pressure-equalizing tube insertions.
During the past decade, acute otitis media, treatment failure, and relapse became less common and high-dose amoxicillin use increased. However, high-dose amoxicillin treatment did not reduce the risk of individual infections resulting in adverse outcomes.
Hypotonic saline therapy predisposes to the development of syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion, whereas isotonic saline protects patients from syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion when undergoing surgery for scoliosis.
The risk of hyponatremia was decreased by isotonic saline solution but not fluid restriction.
In gastroenteritis treated with intravenous fluids, normal saline is preferable to hypotonic saline because it protects against hyponatraemia without causing hypernatraemia.
Neither hypotonic nor isotonic maintenance fluids increased the risk of developing iatrogenic hyponatremia with the 24 hour infusion.
Symptomatic hyponatraemia can result in high morbidity in children of both genders, which is due in large part to inadequate brain adaptation and lack of timely treatment.
The administration of isotonic saline in maintenance parenteral fluids is the most important prophylactic measure that can be taken to prevent the development of hyponatremia in children who receive parenteral fluids.
The prescription of hypotonic dextrose saline solutions by anaesthetists may be putting children at risk from iatrogenic hyponatraemia. Departmental protocols for perioperative fluid prescription in children are uncommon. We suggest that national guidance is required.
Calcium and vitamin D supplementation reduced the rate of bone turnover and bone loss in adult patients with cystic fibrosis, but these changes did not reach statistical significance. These data suggest that a longer term trial of this simple intervention would be justified.
There is a strong relationship between serum concentrations of 25-hydroxy vitamin D, FEV1, and FVC. Further studies are necessary to determine whether supplementation with vitamin D is of any benefit in patients with respiratory disease.
In children with acute Kawasaki disease, a single large dose of intravenous gamma globulin is more effective than the conventional regimen of four smaller daily doses and is equally safe.
Despite the frequent use of modern immunomodulatory treatments Guillain-Barré syndrome still carries considerable morbidity and mortality.
MTLE criteria, including the strong contribution of brain imaging, permit to select accurately a large percentage of patients. However a consistant number of patients present a less pure presentation suggesting more complex epileptogenic networks.
Fewer than daily seizures prior to surgery and a tumoral etiology independently increase the likelihood of remaining seizure free two years after extratemporal epilepsy surgery.
Epilepsy surgery for CD achieved 45.3% seizure-free rate with 10.9% transient postoperative complications in our institute. Worse postoperative seizure outcome was observed in cases with mild CD and frontal lobe resection.
We report a favorable outcome from epilepsy surgery in a large series of older adults and conclude that age per se is not a contraindication to epilepsy surgery. We emphasize the lack of correlation between outcome from surgery and pre-operative duration of epilepsy.
In patients with clinically suspected TLE, MR imaging alone is able to localize temporal lobe foci correctly. Ruling out pseudoseizures remains the only indication for prolonged video-EEG recordings in this group of patients.
This study, the largest reported from India, has demonstrated satisfactory results for epilepsy surgery in children.
Surgical treatment is effective for the treatment of PCEs and superior to pharmacologic therapy alone. In our series, shorter duration of epilepsy and normal neurologic examination were the only independent variables that predicted better surgical outcome.
These findings highlight the role of etiology in prediction of long-term outcome after TLE surgery.
Apical temporal resection sparing the mesial temporal structures is an effective procedure with good long-term seizure outcome in patients with refractory epilepsy due to lesions confined to the apex of the temporal lobe.
Ability to react before CPS is associated with a circumscribed region involved at seizure onset and spread, and with a seizure-free postoperative outcome.
Medial TLE with CFC is not a distinct epilepsy syndrome. The surgical outcome, however, is much more favorable in these patients in comparison with medial TLE patients who had no history of febrile convulsions.
Age at surgery and hippocampal sclerosis are independent prognostic factors for ATL in mesial TLE. These findings suggest that mesial TLE may be a progressive disorder, and surgical outcome is better when early ATL is performed.
These data indicate that a lifetime psychiatric history may be predictive of a worse postsurgical seizure outcome after an anterotemporal lobectomy.
Non-invasive investigations successfully select most patients for temporal lobe surgery.
The extent of resection is closely associated with surgical outcome, especially in extratemporal lobe epilepsy. Resection that includes the area with total pathologic delta waves and frequent interictal spikes predicts a good surgical outcome.
Surgical treatment should be considered when drug therapy fails to control epilepsy or the lesion shows mass effect. Intraoperative electrocorticography monitoring is helpful to define the extent of the resection of the lesion.
ATL combined with aCCT can improve QOL and performance IQ in patients with TLE and MR.
Both ATL and SA can lead to similar favorable seizure control in patients with MTLE/HS. Preliminary data suggest that postoperative verbal memory scores may improve in patients who undergo selective resection of a sclerotic hippocampus in the dominant temporal lobe.
This study indicates that APOSs are predictive of a less favorable outcome in the pediatric postsurgical patient; however, 51% remained seizure free at last follow-up. Finally, the effects of APOSs on outcome were shown to be stable over a 12-month follow-up period.
Due to the favorable control of epilepsy and its effect on school performance and social adaptation, surgical treatment is strongly recommended for cortical dysplasia and intractable epilepsy.
Surgical treatment of tumor-related TLE resulted in long-term seizure control in the majority of patients. Maximal tumor removal can be recommended for tumor-related TLE.
The primary intent-to-treat analysis did not show a different seizure freedom rate for the more posteriorly reaching 3.5-cm resection group. It appears possible that not maximal volume resection but adequate volume resection leads to good seizure freedom.
These data indicate that "tailored" resective surgery for temporo-mesial epilepsy can be performed with a low rate of morbidity, and is highly efficacious. The use of invasive presurgical investigation (SEEG) may explain this high rate of success.
Both CAH and SelAH can lead to several cognitive impairments depending on the side of the surgery. The authors suggest that the optimal type of surgical approach should be decided on a case-by-case basis.
ATL is a favorable option for patients with LRE even when high-resolution brain MRI reveals normal temporal structures. Normal brain MRI patients with localizing pre-operative scalp ictal EEG, have better outcomes following ATL.
The presence of APOSs after frontal lobe surgery for intractable epilepsy does not preclude a significant reduction in seizure tendency. These findings may be useful in counseling patients who undergo surgical treatment for frontal lobe epilepsy.
The PRNP variant allele Asn171Ser is highly prevalent in patients with medically untreatable MTLE-HS and influences their surgical outcome. The results suggest that the PRNP variant allele at codon 171 (Asn171Ser) is associated with epileptogenesis in MTLE-HS.
In temporal-lobe epilepsy, surgery is superior to prolonged medical therapy. Randomized trials of surgery for epilepsy are feasible and appear to yield precise estimates of treatment effects.
Surgical treatment is effective for PCE. Accurate localization of epileptogenic zone and eloquent cortex are two key factors for favorable outcome. None of the diagnostic modalities shows obvious predictive value for favorable surgical outcome.
Detailed knowledge of clinical and electrical manifestations of temporal lobe epilepsies would allow a precocious diagnosis and a reduction of accessing time of these patients to surgical treatment in case of pharmaco-resistance.
The results provide evidence for a dynamic decline of verbal memory functions up to 2 years after left temporal lobectomy, which then levels off.
This series of occipital lobe epilepsy surgery shows that, even in patients with cortical dysplasias, restricted resections may have a good outcome and that intracranial monitoring is usually necessary in order to design an individually tailored resection.
The response to epilepsy surgery during the 1st follow-up year is a reliable indicator of the long-term Engel Class I postoperative outcome. This finding may have important implications for patient counseling and postoperative discontinuation of anticonvulsant medications.
Localization of clusters containing the largest quantity of interictal spikes during onset generally corresponded to the likely location of the epileptogenic cortex.
Surgery in PCEs proved to be effective in short- and long-term follow-up. Lesional posterior cortical epilepsy may be a progressive process in a substantial number of cases.
This study revealed that IED on early post-operative EEG correlate with seizure recurrence in neocortical but not mesiotemporal surgeries and may be used to guide patient counseling in this group of patients.
Collateral damage to cortical tissues adjacent to the surgical approach contributes to postoperative verbal and figural memory outcome after SAH. Controlling for collateral damage may clarify the controversial memory outcomes after SAH reported by different surgical centres.
Resective epilepsy surgery should be considered for children with LGS, despite abundant generalized and multiregional electroencephalogram abnormalities.
The findings of this study may be useful in counseling patients who suffer from APOS following ATL for temporal lobe epilepsy.
In conclusion, our method for short VEEG monitoring has a high yield for diagnosis, minimal complications and is cost effective. These qualities, together with good surgery results validate our method for the investigation and treatment of refractory seizure cases.
The controlled long-term follow-up results suggested that surgery for lesional TLE can be considered as a viable treatment option to control seizure with a low morbidity rate and good outcomes.
The data suggest that LE is a common and a previously underestimated cause of MTLE in this age group. Its prognosis is variable. Amygdala lesions, also, are in part encephalitic in nature.
Leading spikes in combination with focal slowing and ictaform patterns can contribute to a better delineation of mesial temporal epileptic activity in the anterior-posterior alignment. They provide an additional information which can be used for the extent of resection.
Seizure-free outcomes in pediatric HS are similar to historical rates in adult HS. Neuropsychological assessments remain stable after temporal lobectomy. Standard temporal lobectomy should be considered in pediatric patients with medically intractable epilepsy secondary to HS.
The SISCOM method might be useful in the evaluation of, and the surgical planning for, patients with intractable partial epilepsy in whom previous resective treatment has failed and who are being considered for reoperation.
The authors conclude that SelAH is a safe and effective surgical procedure for MTLE.
Sweat chloride is useful in multicenter trials as a biomarker of CFTR activity and to test the effect of CFTR potentiators.
In patients who are younger and healthier than those in previously studied populations, ivacaftor demonstrated a significant improvement in pulmonary function, weight, and CFTR activity compared with placebo. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
These results expand the safety information for ivacaftor and support its continued evaluation. Lack of a clinical effect suggests that a CFTR potentiator alone is not an effective therapeutic approach for patients who have CF and are homozygous for F508del-CFTR.
We conclude that buflomedil treatment may be useful in decreasing the progression rate of arterial wall thickness.
The European Stroke Scale has been developed according to the clinimetric criteria.
Psychological intervention for post-partum depression improves maternal mood (EPDS) in the short term. However, this benefit is not superior to spontaneous remission in the long term.
The data provide evidence that CPP is effective in improving outcomes for children who experienced four or more TSEs and had positive effects for their mothers as well.
The findings provide additional evidence of the efficacy and durability of CPP with this population and highlight the importance of a relationship focus in the treatment of traumatized preschoolers.
The findings provide evidence of the efficacy of CPP with this population and highlight the importance of a relationship focus in the treatment of traumatized preschoolers.
Interpersonal psychotherapy is an effective method of antidepressant treatment during pregnancy and should be a first-line treatment in the hierarchy of treatment for antepartum depression.
Salbutamol was shown to be effective and safe in the treatment of acute bronchiolitis.
Nebulized albuterol therapy does not appear to enhance recovery or attenuate severity of illness in infants hospitalized with acute, moderate bronchiolitis, as evidenced by improvement in oxygen saturation, time to meet standardized discharge criteria, or length of hospital stay.
Clinical scores and oxygen saturation levels improved more rapidly in the bronchodilator groups than in the placebo group up to 24 h, but these drugs did not have a sufficient effect to change the natural course of the disease.
There were no group differences in the effectiveness of therapy for infants hospitalized with bronchiolitis. Based on these results, we do not recommend routine use of either nebulized EPI or ALB in this patient group.
No significant group differences in either primary or secondary outcomes in infants treated with oral albuterol versus placebo were found. The widespread use of oral albuterol in this patient group is not recommended.
Nebulized albuterol in infants with mild bronchiolitis due to respiratory syncytial virus did not improve VPTEF/VE and tPTEF/tE but did decrease TEF10 and 25/PT.
Inhalation of nebulized 3% hypertonic saline solution and salbutamol is a safe and effective therapy for patients with mild to moderate bronchiolitis.
We conclude that in nonasthmatic, nonseverely ill infants hospitalized with viral bronchiolitis, aerosolized 3% saline solution/1.5 mg epinephrine decreases symptoms and length of hospitalization as compared to 0.9% saline solution/1.5 mg epinephrine.
The results of the current study indicate that bronchodilator responsiveness in infants with bronchiolitis is not age-dependent.
Although the patients treated with epinephrine were judged well enough for ED discharge significantly earlier than the patients treated with albuterol, epinephrine was not found to be more efficacious than albuterol in treating moderately ill infants with bronchiolitis.
Topical nasal phenylephrine did not produce significant short-term improvements in clinical status in infants hospitalized for acute bronchiolitis.
We conclude that in nonasthmatic, nonseverely ill ambulatory infants with viral bronchiolitis, aerosolized 3% saline solution plus 5 mg terbutaline is effective in decreasing symptoms as compared to 0.9% saline solution plus 5 mg terbutaline.
MDI-administered albuterol is as safe and efficacious as nebulized-administered albuterol in intubated infants with bronchiolitis. Generalizability of these results is limited by differences in drug delivery with different brands of nebulizers and spacers and sites of attachment.
In children up to the 18th month of life, ED treatment of bronchiolitis with nebulized racemic albuterol led to more successful discharges than nebulized epinephrine.
Management of bronchiolitis was similar across PREDICT sites. Practice is equally split between i.v. and n.g. rehydration. This reflects a lack of evidence which should be addressed through a multicenter comparative trial.
The CHWRS had modest discriminative validity in predicting ED disposition. Neither the CHWRS nor the RDAI had good construct validity. Respiratory rate, oxygen need, and presence of retractions were most useful in predicting ED disposition.
The use of nebulized epinephrine did not significantly reduce the length of the hospital stay or the time until the infant was ready for discharge among infants admitted to the hospital with bronchiolitis.
Institutional differences in care practices for children with VLRI were not explained by differences in patient severity and did not affect the children's recovery but correlated significantly with hospital costs and LOS.
Quinine sulfate, but not vitamin E, is superior to placebo in the treatment of nocturnal leg cramps.
The results indicate that quinine can prevent nocturnal leg cramps in general ambulatory populations. Given the possible serious side effects of treatment with quinine, the benefits and risks in patients taking this drug should be closely monitored.
The American Diabetes Association diagnostic method as the World Health Organization are acceptable forms to diagnose gestational diabetes.
Universal screening for GDM is superior to risk factor based screening-detecting more cases, facilitating early diagnosis and is associated with improved pregnancy outcome.
In women with GDM and fasting hyperglycemia, glucose plus fetal AC measurements identified pregnancies at low risk for macrosomia and resulted in the avoidance of insulin therapy in 38% of patients without increasing rates of neonatal morbidity.
Treatment of gestational diabetes reduces serious perinatal morbidity and may also improve the woman's health-related quality of life.
Our results indicate strong, continuous associations of maternal glucose levels below those diagnostic of diabetes with increased birth weight and increased cord-blood serum C-peptide levels.
The higher plasma leptin found in the offspring of DM reflects their higher BMI. A moderately high but still normal glycemia might be a preclinical sign of insulin resistance or other disturbance of glucoregulation.
Measuring fasting plasma glucose concentrations using a cut off value of >/=4. 8 mmol/l is an easier screening procedure for gestational diabetes than the 50 g glucose challenge test and allows 70% of women to avoid the challenge test.
In confirmation of our original hypothesis, IGT in the offspring is a long-term complication of maternal diabetes. Excessive insulin secretion in utero, as assessed by AFI concentration, is a strong predictor of IGT in childhood.
More than one-fifth of older white British men and women have either undiagnosed diabetes or impaired fasting glucose according to new WHO criteria. Strategies for the primary and secondary prevention of Type 2 diabetes among older individuals are urgently needed.
No change in pressure ulcer prevalence was demonstrated since implementation of OBRA '87 in this nationally derived sample of long-term nursing home residents.
These longitudinal data quantitate the benefits of continuous enzyme replacement therapy with alglucerase/imiglucerase for children with Gaucher disease type 1. Within 8 years of enzyme replacement therapy, most clinical parameters studied became normal or nearly normal.
Intravenous administration of macrophage-targeted glucocerebrosidase produces objective clinical improvement in patients with type 1 Gaucher's disease. The hematologic and visceral responses to enzyme replacement develop more rapidly than the skeletal response.
We demonstrated bias in case-control selection in subjects from a prototype rare disease registry and used case-control matching to minimize this bias. Therefore, this approach appears useful to study cohorts of heterogeneous patients in rare disease registries.
GRADE will compare the long-term effectiveness of major glycemia-lowering medications and provide guidance to clinicians about the most appropriate medications to treat T2DM. GRADE begins recruitment at 37 centers in the U.S. in 2013.
The combination of aerobic exercise program and progressive relaxation techniques contribute to improve night rest, trait anxiety and quality of life in patients with fibromyalgia.
Although no global differences were found between groups, Ai Chi significantly improved fibromyalgia symptomatology and sleep quality, whereas stretching only improved subjects' psychological well-being.
Improvements in symptom severity, physical function and social function were still found six and 24 months after the completed treatment programme.
A long-lasting exercise therapy in warm water produced relevant gains in muscle strength at low velocities of movements, some of which predicted improvements in physical problems, emotional problems, mental health and balance.
Results suggest that Fibro-Fit was effective in improving physical impairments and function. Further investigation is required to refine the effective components of these programs and determine how modifiable factors can be used to improve outcomes.
Strength training improved strength and some functionality in women with fibromyalgia. Interventions with resistance have important implications on independence and quality of life issues for women with fibromyalgia.
A combination of thalassotherapy, exercise and patient education may temporarily improve fibromyalgia symptoms and health-related quality of life.
Nine recommendations for the management of fibromyalgia syndrome were developed using a systematic review and expert consensus.
Home-based exercise, a relatively low-cost treatment modality, has the potential to improve important health outcomes in FM.
IIRS scores can be compared meaningfully within and across patient groups. Both total and subscale scores can be used depending on research objectives.
Accumulating 30 minutes of LPA throughout the day produces clinically relevant changes in perceived physical function and pain in previously minimally active adults with FM.
An aerobic exercise programme for FMS patients should consist of land-based or water-based exercises with slight to moderate intensity two or three times per week for at least 4 weeks. The patient should be motivated to continue exercise after participating in an exercise programme.
These studies suggest that pituitary function is normal in FM and that reported changes in the HP-GH-IGF-1 axis are most likely hypothalamic in origin. The therapeutic efficacy of supplemental GH therapy in FM requires further study before any solid recommendations can be made.
Therapy with amitriptyline or physiotherapy is equally effective in improving outcome in patients of fibromyalgia over a period of six months.
Psychological interventions in combination with physiotherapy can be effective in treating fibromyalgia patients, especially if applied early.
There is moderate evidence that hydrotherapy has short-term beneficial effects on pain and HRQOL in FMS patients. There is a risk to over-estimate the effects of hydrotherapy due to methodological weaknesses of the studies and to small trials included in meta-analysis.
Positive health-related outcomes in this mostly unresponsive condition can be obtained with a low-cost, group multidisciplinary intervention in a community-based, nonclinical setting.
Prescribed graded aerobic exercise is a simple, cheap, effective, and potentially widely available treatment for fibromyalgia.
PE and CBT improve clinical manifestations in FM patients only for short periods of time. Improvement in self efficacy and physical fitness are not associated with improvement in clinical manifestations.
The results suggest that women with FMS can gain additional health benefits by engaging in a 6-week traditional exercise programme with supplementary WBV.
The data support the hypothesis that elderly female FM patients have normal neuromuscular function. Supervised strength training also suits elderly FM patients, has positive effects on perceived symptoms and improves functional capacity without complications.
Tai chi may be a useful treatment for fibromyalgia and merits long-term study in larger study populations. (Funded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In contrast to glucose, icodextrin preserved the daytime dwell ultrafiltration during peritonitis. Serum icodextrin metabolites increased during icodextrin use, but remained stable during peritonitis. Adverse effects were not observed.
These data suggest that solute transfer increases and UF declines with time on peritoneal dialysis. This process is exacerbated and accelerated by peritonitis, and appears to be proportional to the degree of associated inflammation and number of infections in close proximity.
Y system and twin bag use was associated with a reduction of 50 and 75% peritonitis incidence, respectively, in patients on CAPD. The cost of the twin bag was actually lower, because of savings from a decreased usage of antibiotics and fewer hospitalizations.
This study provides the first substantial evidence of non-treatment benefit to be derived among young people involved in illegal drug use in receipt of motivational interviewing. The targeting of multiple drug use in a generic fashion among young people has also been supported.
Further study of the nature and consequences of MI fidelity, and individual practitioner effects more generally, is needed. Advice may be an effective brief intervention with young cannabis users in its own right and should be evaluated further in trials.
Results suggest that a brief, personalized, group prevention program is a feasible approach to reducing adolescent risk-taking. Strategies must be developed to solidify these positive changes so that they are longer-lasting.
Evidence of effectiveness for the delivery of MI by youth workers in routine conditions has been identified. However, the extent of benefit is much more modest than previously identified in efficacy studies.
Web-based programs may be useful in reducing alcohol-related risk among college students. Further evaluation is needed.
The effectiveness of MI interventions for adolescent substance use behavior change is supported by this meta-analytic review. In consideration of these results, as well as the larger literature, MI should be considered as a treatment for adolescent substance use.
Despite concerns, schools are a viable setting in which to screen youth for drug abuse problems and to conduct a BI.
These data provide further epidemiological support that adolescence is a particularly vulnerable period for developing a SUD.
We do not recommend sumatriptan in patients who have exhausted conservative management of postdural puncture headache.
This study showed the therapeutic effects of intravenous hydrocortisone in reducing headache after spinal anesthesia in women who underwent cesarean section. Its mechanism of action is yet to be determined.
The MCSD in VAS pain score does not differ with the severity of pain being experienced.
Ultrasound imaging can reduce the risk of failed or traumatic lumbar punctures and epidural catheterisations, as well as the number of needle insertions and redirections. Ultrasound may be a useful adjunct for these procedures.
The results indicate that exposure treatments like NET lead to a significant PTSD symptom reduction even in severely traumatized refugees and asylum seekers.
A remarkable drop in symptoms could not be linked directly to the intervention. Feasibility of the intervention was good, but controlling the intervention in a small rural community appeared to be a difficult task to accomplish.
Our results indicate that ALPK1 plays an important role in the regulation of motor coordination. Alpk1PB/PB mice would be a useful model to provide a clue to the better understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of ALPK1 in the control of fine motor activities.
Individual NET in combination with group-based mourning comprises an effective treatment for traumatized survivors who have to bear the loss of loved ones and have been suffering from symptoms of PTSD and depression.
The study indicated that refugees and asylum seekers can be treated successfully for PTSD and depression in the general psychiatric health care system; NET appeared to be a promising treatment for both groups.
Some of the most important factors in producing psychological morbidity in refugees may be alleviated by planned, integrated rehabilitation programmes and attention to social support and family reunion.
The sociopolitical context of the refugee experience is associated with refugee mental health. Humanitarian efforts that improve these conditions are likely to have positive impacts.
K39 strip test is ideal for rapid reliable field diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis. The test has high sensitivity and specificity but it remains positive long after treatment (up to 3 years).
Acupuncture and education, alone and in combination, significantly reduce smoking; however, combined they show a significantly greater effect, as seen in subjects with a greater pack-year history.
The combination of auricular acupressure and Internet-assisted smoking cessation program was more efficacious than auricular acupressure alone in terms of quit rate.
We offer large epidemiology study data on the prevalence of chronic urticaria. The prevalence of chronic urticaria has not yet been defined in an adult population-based study. With this work we offer such data to describe the prevalence and features of this disease.
Our findings back the current guideline recommendations to use the UAS for monitoring disease activity in CU patients. Urticaria activity score mean values of at least four consecutive days should be used.
Monochromatic pulsating light may have effects on pressure ulcer healing, and a new study focusing only on grade II ulcers is under way.
Multiwavelength light therapy from a gallium-aluminum-arsenide laser source did not influence overall healing pressure ulcers. Limited evidence suggested that it improved healing of stage 3 and 4 pressure ulcers.
Monochromatic pulsating light accelerates healing in grade II pressure ulcers in elderly patients.
Presence of self-reported concomitant AR in patients with asthma resulted in a higher rate of asthma attacks and more emergency room visits compared with asthma patients without concomitant AR.
Addition of montelukast or salmeterol to an inhaled corticosteroid similarly protected most patients from experiencing an asthma attack during a 1-year period, but, based on noninferiority limits, the study was inconclusive with regard to a difference between treatment groups.
Montelukast appears effective and safe for the treatment of children with asthma.
the combination of salmeterol 50 microg and fluticasone 250 microg in a single dry powder inhaler was superior to twice the dose of FP (500 microg). It seems justified to add salmeterol rather than increasing the ICS dose if symptomatic asthmatics require supplementary therapy.
Our results suggest additive benefits of a single dose of a long-acting beta(2)-agonist and leukotriene antagonist, in terms of bronchoprotection and bronchodilation. Further studies in more severe asthmatics are required to evaluate long-term clinical effects.
Patients with moderate asthma similar to those we studied should not substitute the combination of an LTRA and an LABA for the combination of inhaled corticosteroid and an LABA.
Patients with persistent asthma well controlled by low doses of triamcinolone cannot be switched to salmeterol monotherapy without risk of clinically significant loss of asthma control.
There were no differences between 4 weeks of CIC 400 microg once daily and FP 250 microg twice daily on methacholine hyper-responsiveness in mild-to-moderate persistent asthma. Longer-term studies are indicated to evaluate their relative efficacy on asthma exacerbations.
Budesonide inhalation suspension was more effective than nebulized cromolyn sodium in young children with persistent asthma. Both treatments were well tolerated with similar adverse event profiles.
With the salmeterol fluticasone combination product, patients with moderate asthma can achieve a control of their asthma, which is as good as that after standard treatment. In most SFC patients the fluticasone dosage can be reduced by 50 % without losing asthma control.
Initial maintenance therapy with FSC provides greater improvement in asthma control and patient satisfaction than montelukast.
The implementation of an asthma management program based in GINA recommendations improved the patient's health related quality of life and was cost-effective as compared to usual care.
Use of tacrolimus as add-on pretreatment to prevent reactions to aspirin in patients with AERD or to achieve the goal of silent aspirin desensitization could not be accomplished.
For patients with mild airway obstruction and persistent asthma symptoms despite budesonide treatment, concomitant treatment with montelukast significantly improves asthma control.
Montelukast and salmeterol exhibited significant improvements in asthma control when given as second-line therapy. Montelukast also produced significant effects on AMP challenge and EOS suggesting anti-inflammatory activity.
Long-acting beta-agonists have been shown to increase severe and life-threatening asthma exacerbations, as well as asthma-related deaths.
After accounting for dietary and other differences in Hg exposures, total Hg in blood was neither elevated nor reduced in CHARGE Study preschoolers with AU/ASD compared with unaffected controls, and resembled those of nationally representative samples.
Large portions may contribute to obesigenic dietary environments by promoting excess daily intakes among Hispanic and African American children.
These findings provide new evidence that portion size and ED act additively to promote energy intake at meals among preschool-aged children.
The energy density and the portion size of a food act independently to affect energy intake. The findings indicate that large portions of foods with a high energy density may facilitate the overconsumption of energy.
Larger portions led to greater energy intake regardless of serving method and subject characteristics. Portion size is a modifiable determinant of energy intake that should be addressed in connection with the prevention and treatment of obesity.
Increasing the portion size of all foods resulted in a significant increase in energy intake that was sustained over 2 days. These data support suggestions that large portions are associated with excess energy intake that could contribute to increased body weight.
Reductions in portion size and energy density independently decreased ad libitum energy intake in women when commonly consumed foods were served over 2 d. Reductions in both portion size and energy density can help to moderate energy intake without increased hunger.
Plate size did not affect energy intake from a single meal in either the normal weight or overweight/obese subjects.
Glass shape appears to influence the rate of drinking of alcoholic beverages. This may represent a modifiable target for public health interventions.
Practical intervention items aimed at parents are likely to be used in the longer term and therefore may be appropriate for use in an intervention strategy to improve packed lunches.
Weekday exposure for 6 months to a 1,600 kcal lunch caused significant increases in total energy intake and weight gain.
To avoid overpouring, use tall, narrow glasses or ones on which the alcohol level is premarked. To avoid underestimating the amount of alcohol consumed, studies using self reports of standard drinks should ask about the shape of the glass.
The data suggest that college students drink more alcohol than indicated by their survey responses, raising questions about the validity of widely used alcohol surveys. Efforts to educate students about the alcohol content of standard drinks should be enhanced.
Our research suggests that businesses have a strong incentive to offer bundles of soda when drink size is limited. Restricting larger-sized drinks may have the unintended consequence of increasing soda consumption rather than decreasing it.
Environments that offer large portions of palatable foods affect all children's intake irrespective of their weight status or how reinforcing they find food to be.
The effect of satiety-enhancing foods can be influenced by the energy density and portion size of other foods at the meal.
Although children's food consumption is highly variable from meal to meal, daily energy intake is relatively constant, because children adjust their energy intake at successive meals.
Water intakes below IOM-recommended levels may be a cause for concern, especially for older adults.
The study results indicate that 3 d weighed intakes recorded from Wednesday, Friday and Saturday are most representative of 7 d habitual intake in free-living subjects. They also indicate that seasonality has a limited effect on EI and no effect on macronutrient intake.
There is a lack of consistency in the portion sizes communicated to the public. An independent and authoritative scheme of suggested portion sizes for all foods, with distinct recommendations for general advice and for weight-loss advice, could be of benefit.
Smaller portions at breakfast led to reductions in gastrointestinal hormone secretion but did not affect subsequent energy intake, suggesting small reductions in portion size may be a useful strategy to constrain EI.
A large literature establishes that beverage alcohol prices and taxes are related inversely to drinking. Effects are large compared to other prevention policies and programs. Public policies that raise prices of alcohol are an effective means to reduce drinking.
Because energy content increases with portion size, educational and other public health efforts to address obesity should focus on the need for people to consume smaller portions.
Although this trial was not able to provide definitive evidence on the long-term effects of low-dose dexamethasone after the first week of life in chronically ventilator-dependent infants, our data indicate no strong association with long-term morbidity.
A 42-day tapering course of dexamethasone decreases the duration of ventilator and oxygen dependency in very low birth weight infants and is not associated with an increased risk of short-term adverse effects.
Treatment of ventilator-dependent premature infants with dexamethasone at two weeks of age is more hazardous and no more beneficial than treatment at four weeks of ages.
A moderately early 14-day weaning course of low-dose dexamethasone does not significantly suppress the adrenal function of very preterm infants with RDS, but accelerates weaning from the ventilator.
The dexamethasone course used did not influence long term outcome. However, entry criteria for this study selected a group of babies at high risk of poor long term outcome.
The data do not support the hypothesis that dexamethasone's action in producing a clinical improvement within the first 72 hours of treatment for neonatal CLD is by the 'maturation' of pulmonary surfactant PC.
HC prophylaxis improved O(2)-free survival and early cardiocirculatory function in our population, without important short-term effects. The neurodevelopmental outcome will be assessed at 2 years.
Serum cortisol concentrations measured shortly after birth may identify those very high-risk infants who may benefit from hydrocortisone supplementation.
Early dexamethasone administration may be useful in preventing CLD, but its use should prudently be restricted to preterm infants at high risk of CLD.
A three day course of dexamethasone administered shortly after birth in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome is associated with a significantly increased incidence of cerebral palsy and developmental delay.
These data do no support the routine use of early postnatal steroids, but may justify further study in a selected, high risk group of infants.
A 12-day course of early postnatal steroid therapy given to extremely low birth weight infants did not decrease the risk of CLD or death at 36 weeks postmenstrual age and was associated with an increased risk of complications and poor weight gain.
In preterm infants, early administration of dexamethasone at a moderate dose has no effect on death or chronic lung disease and is associated with gastrointestinal perforation and decreased growth.
At 96 hours of age, neither treatment with inhaled NO nor dexamethasone prevented CLD or death.
These results suggest that early use of dexamethasone can improve pulmonary status and also increase SP-A and SP-D levels in the tracheal fluid in premature infants with RDS.
The pilot study produced preliminary evidence of a benefit of a community-based mother-infant intervention delivered by trained, but otherwise unqualified, community workers, sufficient to warrant a formal controlled evaluation of this treatment.
The EIP improved in selected areas of infant and maternal health, and these improvements were sustained for a period of 1 year following program termination. These findings have important implications for healthcare services.
The study indicates that levamisole is not as effective in arresting disease progression as was observed in a previous open study. A study with a larger sample size is necessary to determine if levamisole is truly superior to placebo in this respect.
In conclusion, NB-UVB-alone therapy and the combined therapies are effective treatment options in the treatment of vitiligo. Future studies with larger groups are warranted to confirm our results.
NB-UVB treatment is a moderately effective treatment for vitiligo. Pseudocatalase cream does not appear to add any incremental benefit to NB-UVB alone.
NB-UVB performed better in comparison to TMP PUVA in terms of mean total repigmentation when traditionally considered therapy-resistant sites were excluded.
It appears that 308-nm MEL is more effective than NB-UVB in treating vitiligo lesions and it induces repigmentation more rapidly.
Oral supplementation with AP containing alpha-lipoic acid before and during NB-UVB significantly improves the clinical effectiveness of NB-UVB, reducing vitiligo-associated oxidative stress.
BB-UVA at a dose of 15 J/cm(2) /session gives results for vitiligo that are comparable to PUVA, suggesting it might be useful when oral psoralens are contraindicated.
Our results have shown that concurrent topical calcipotriol potentiates the efficacy of PUVA in the treatment of vitiligo, and that this combination achieves earlier pigmentation with a lower total UVA dosage.
Cultured melanocytes delivered on PLA film were efficacious and safe when applied on patients with stable vitiligo.
Both CP 0·05% and T 0·1% ointments offer similar benefit in paediatric vitiligo, both facial and nonfacial. The facial lesions responded faster than the nonfacial ones.
The 308-nm excimer lamp and laser showed a similar efficacy in treating vitiligo. For the same fluence, the lamp induced more erythema suggesting photobiological differences between the two devices.
The thin split-thickness graft technique is superior to the suction blister technique in treating vitiligo.
Tacrolimus ointment appears to be an effective treatment option for facial vitiligo. A guarded prognosis is advisable for vitiliginous lesions on other localizations. Treatment must be applied twice daily for optimum response.
Recalcitrant vitiligo of the face and neck may benefit from the combination of excimer laser phototherapy with topical hydrocortisone 17-butyrate cream.
The 308-nm excimer lamp and the 308-nm excimer laser exhibited similar efficacies in treating vitiligo.
This study suggests that fractional CO(2) laser therapy followed by NB-UVB phototherapy could be used effectively and safely as an alternative modality for the treatment of refractory vitiligo.
Both NCES and NCORSHFS are safe and effective techniques with comparable efficacy. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study directly comparing two different cellular techniques.
After a strict preoperative selection for disease stability, transplantation resulted in repigmentation of at least 70% of the treated area in most actively treated vitiligo lesions. Repigmentation was primarily caused by the transplanted melanocytes.
Although both the procedures are effective in lip vitiligo, PSG gives a better color match than SBEG.
Doses of 50 g or less per week of clobetasol during a period of 12 weeks are safe on adult vitiligo patients, although local side effects are possible. Repigmentation rates were incomplete with single steroid therapy, making combined therapy a better option.
Halo nevi association in NSV affects age at onset and depigmentation pattern and has a stronger link with familial premature hair graying, suggesting that premature hair graying may involve, at least partly, an autoimmune pathway.
Much opportunity exists for improving the design and reporting of vitiligo clinical trials. The proposed guidelines will help overcome methodologic challenges faced when conducting RCTs to answer treatment questions.
Low-dose oral corticosteroids are effective without serious side-effects in preventing the progression and inducing repigmentation of actively spreading vitiligo, which is difficult to treat with topical corticosteroids or photochemotherapy.
The often cited prevalence of 8% could not be confirmed after excluding clinical patient populations. Accordingly, the worldwide prevalence of vitiligo ranges between 0.5 and 2%.
Reporting negative experiences from childhood vitiligo appears to be associated with HRQL impairment in young adults with vitiligo.
Class 3 corticosteroids and UV-B therapy are the most effective and safest therapies for localized and for generalized vitiligo, respectively.
High-dose glucocorticoid pulse therapy may represent a therapeutic option in patients with generalized progressive vitiligo, and should be further evaluated in a prospective, randomized, clinical trial.
Our findings suggest that patients with vitiligo have a decreased risk of both melanoma and NMSC.
The number of surgical-site S. aureus infections acquired in the hospital can be reduced by rapid screening and decolonizing of nasal carriers of S. aureus on admission. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN56186788.)
 SSI rates were higher for most SPs in INICC hospitals compared with CDC-NHSN data.
The evidence does not support preoperative bathing with chlorhexidine as a means of reducing surgical site wound infection.
Although it did not show an effect in this study, soil lead abatement may be useful in certain areas.
These data suggest that an intervention that consists only of providing cleaning supplies and a brief description of dust control is not effective at reducing blood lead levels among urban children with low to mild elevations in blood lead levels at a 7-month follow-up.
We conclude that dust control, as performed by families and in the absence of lead hazard controls to reduce ongoing contamination from lead-based paint, was not effective in preventing children's exposure to residential lead hazards.
We conclude that dust control, as performed by families and in the absence of lead hazard controls to reduce ongoing contamination from lead-based paint, is not effective in the primary prevention of childhood lead exposure.
Regular home cleaning, accompanied by maternal education, is a safe and partially effective intervention that should be recommended for the large majority of lead-exposed children for whom, unfortunately, removal to lead-safe housing is not an option.
Lead-based-paint hazard remediation as performed in this study, is not an effective secondary prevention strategy among children with mildly elevated blood lead levels.
Lowering the floor PbD standard below the current standard of 40 microg/ft2 would protect more children from elevated PbB.
Housing characteristics and floor dust lead levels can be used to screen housing to identify lead hazards prior to occupancy, before purchasing a home, or after renovation to prevent children's exposure to lead hazards.
No significant difference in pressure ulcer healing was observed between PEMF treatment and sham group in this study.
Further research in the form of methodologically sound, randomized, controlled studies are needed. Inter alia, resolutions are needed for the significant disparities between clinical targets, types of electrical stimulation, and clinical outcomes.
Despite the small numbers in this pilot study, electromagnetic therapy provided significant gains in the healing of venous leg ulcers and reduction in pain.
Rapid multi-viral testing in the ED did not significantly affect ED patient treatment but may reduce antibiotic prescription in the community after discharge from the ED, suggesting a novel strategy to alter community physician antibiotic prescription patterns.
Point-of-care rapid influenza tests were sensitive and specific and were associated with less diagnostic testing in the emergency department.
A triage protocol for rapid influenza testing for febrile infants and children appears to significantly decrease additional testing, time in the ED, and charges in children testing positive for influenza.
Febrile infants with confirmed viral infections are at lower risk for SBI than those in whom a viral infection is not identified. Viral diagnostic data can positively contribute to the management of febrile infants, especially those who are classified as HR.
Febrile infants who are < or =60 days of age and have RSV infections are at significantly lower risk of SBI than febrile infants without RSV infection. Nevertheless, the rate of SBIs, particularly as a result of UTI, remains appreciable in febrile RSV-positive infants.
The detection of influenza A by EIA has a positive impact on medical management by decreasing antibiotic use in pediatric patients evaluated in an ED, by decreasing the duration of antibiotic use in hospitalized patients and by encouraging antiviral therapy.
Concurrent serious bacterial infections are rare in infants and children hospitalized with RSV lower respiratory tract infections and the empiric use of broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics is unnecessary in children with typical signs and symptoms of RSV bronchiolitis.
Rapid confirmation of influenza virus type A infection seems to decrease ancillary tests and antibiotic use in febrile infants and toddlers in the ED. A prospective study with a larger group is needed to confirm these findings.
This study confirms that UDCA alters lipoprotein metabolism and shows that it improves the EFA and retinol status of patients with CF and liver disease.
Ursodiol is a safe and effective treatment for primary biliary cirrhosis.
The results of well-designed observational studies (with either a cohort or a case-control design) do not systematically overestimate the magnitude of the effects of treatment as compared with those in randomized, controlled trials on the same topic.
Despite good correlation between randomized trials and nonrandomized studies-in particular, prospective studies-discrepancies beyond chance do occur and differences in estimated magnitude of treatment effect are very common.
One fourth of observational studies gave different results than randomized trials, and between-study heterogeneity was more common in observational studies in the field of digestive surgery.
Prophylaxis with GCS is not associated with a lower rate of deep vein thrombosis in nonsurgical elderly patients in routine practice. Randomized studies are needed to assess the efficacy of GCS when properly used in this setting.
There is evidence that cigarette smoking is an important risk factor for pancreatic cancer, but the estimate of the association greatly relies on the studies' quality.
Observational studies had similar results whether using traditional regression or propensity scores to adjust for confounding. Propensity scores gave slightly weaker associations; however, many of the reviewed studies did not implement propensity scores well.
The Fpc+C combination was more efficient in the correction of the negative overbite mainly due to greater extrusion of the maxillary incisors. However, the Rpc+C appliance promoted better upper and lower incisor inclination, resulting in a more adequate overjet.
Prolonged sucking habits and hyperdivergent facial characteristics are significant risk factors for anterior open bite in the mixed dentition.
The true incidence of finger infarction in elective low-dose epinephrine injection into the hand and finger is likely to be remote, particularly with the possible rescue with phentolamine.
Parents rated the honey products higher than the silan date extract for symptomatic relief of their children's nocturnal cough and sleep difficulty due to URI. Honey may be a preferable treatment for cough and sleep difficulty associated with childhood URI.
The ADC was equivalent to placebo in providing temporary relief of URI symptoms in preschool children. However, the ADC did have significantly greater sedative effects than did placebo.
These data represent a national analysis of the largest group of infants with gastroschisis to date which further aids the characterization and understanding of this serious congenital condition.
Breastfed infants are supplied with FAA, mainly glutamic acid and glutamine, compared to formula-fed counterparts. The different FAA intake might be the origin of some functional differences at the enteral level between breast- and formula-fed infants.
Perioperative oral glutamine supplementation increases total rupture strength and improves the percent area of mature collagen at the anastomoses sites on postoperative days 3 and 8.
Glutamine dipeptide-supplemented parenteral nutrition did not alter infection rates following pancreatic necrosis surgery but significantly decreased infections in SICU patients after cardiac, vascular, and colonic surgery.
NEC is associated with significantly worse neurodevelopmental outcome than prematurity alone. Presence of advanced NEC and need for surgery increase the risk of neurological impairment.
The ATLS course, both complete and audit status, prepares students more appropriately for managing trauma patients as judged by trauma simulation scenarios. Consideration should be given for including ATLS as an integral part of the senior medical student curriculum.
Using a trauma mannequin, for assessment, surgical residents completing the ATLS course demonstrated superior resuscitation skills compared with a non-ATLS group.
Some ATLS interventions (BLOOD, TRAN, and TRAN-GCS) are associated with improved survival for selected high-risk subgroups in these 21 rural Level III trauma hospitals.
The results of this study favour PEP and do not support the use of HFCWO as the primary form of AC in patients with CF.
The increased flexibility might be the reason for the recognition of mutated CFTR by the housekeeping proteins and its premature degradation. This, in turn results in reduction of population of functional channels at the epithelial cell surface and disease phenotype.
During both a finite treatment period and over 24 h, less sputum was cleared using HFCWO than usual ACT. HFCWO does not appear to cause any adverse physiological effects and may influence adherence.
HFCWC and IPV are at least as effective as vigorous, professionally administered PD&P for hospitalized CF patients, and the 3 modalities were equally acceptable to them. A hospitalized CF patient should try each therapy and choose his or her preferred modality.
Adding PEEP during HFCC prevents the decrease in EELV and increases V(osc). Therefore, PEEP may improve HFCC-induced mucus clearance in children with cystic fibrosis.
The PTHF device appears to be a safe and effective method of airway clearance in CF patients in this small pilot study.
This initial pilot study suggests (1) stable patients with CF tolerated one treatment of IPV without adverse sequelae, and (2) IPV was as effective as standard aerosol and P&PD in improving short-term PFT results and enhancing sputum expectoration.
Recovered sputum weight is similar whether AD is preceded by saline(NEB) or saline(IPV). The much greater amount of mucus obtained during the AD period than during the saline delivery period warrants further investigation.
Acapella and Flutter have similar performance characteristics. Acapella's performance is not gravity-dependent (ie, dependent on device orientation) and may be easier to use for some patients, particularly at low expiratory flows.
Chagas disease presents an increasing challenge for clinicians in the United States. Despite gaps in the evidence base, current knowledge is sufficient to make practical recommendations to guide appropriate evaluation, management, and etiologic treatment of Chagas disease.
In this cohort of patients with heart failure of different etiologies, Chagas' heart disease was the main prognostic factor for mortality.
In the United States, Chagas' heart disease commonly mimics coronary artery disease or idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. The prognosis is poor for patients with heart failure or left ventricular aneurysm or dysfunction. The disease may be underdiagnosed in the United States.
Recognising and addressing personality factors have the potential to enhance retention in treatment.
Much of the improvements found at a 5-year follow-up can be attributed to the natural outcome of the illness. Nevertheless, it was still possible to detect long-term benefits of psychological therapies completed 5 years previously.
BFST and EOIT proved to be effective treatments for adolescents with anorexia nervosa, but BFST produced a faster return to health.
First-line in-patient psychiatric treatment does not provide advantages over out-patient management. Out-patient treatment failures do very poorly on transfer to in-patient facilities.
Laboratory findings obtained at the initial examination may be helpful in predicting a fatal or chronic course of AN. An evaluation of the long-term outcome of eating disorders should include an assessment of the medical co-morbidity.
The review highlights evidence-based and promising treatment modalities for anorexia nervosa and presents a triangulated analysis including controlled research, practice guidelines, and emerging treatments to inform and support clinical decision making.
In this randomized clinical trial, no differences were noted in early measures of pulmonary function or in immunologic or coagulation status when comparing fresh versus standard issue single-unit RBC transfusion. Clinical trial registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (
AS-3 RBCs can be used safely for small-volume RBC transfusions for preterm infants.
Anemia is common in the critically ill and results in a large number of RBC transfusions. Transfusion practice has changed little during the past decade. The number of RBC units transfused is an independent predictor of worse clinical outcome.
Prolonged storage of erythrocytes does not increase morbidity in cardiac surgery. However, storage for longer than 28 days could be a risk factor for the acquisition of nosocomial pneumonia.
From the currently available published data, it is difficult to determine whether there is a relationship between the age of transfused RBCs and outcome in adult patients, except possibly in trauma patients receiving massive transfusion.
In this systematic review, we could find no definitive argument to support the superiority of fresh over older RBCs for transfusion.
Ongoing RCTs may lack enough power to settle the issue of whether or not the transfusion of stored blood has a negative clinical impact. A precautionary reduction of the maximum storage time to 35 days is advisable.
The prevalence and incidence of mild anemia increase with age and mild anemia affects more than one out of ten elderly individuals. Unexplained anemia is common and may be due to myelodysplastic syndromes in some cases.
The validity and importance of identifying these four subgroups is demonstrated. Previous definitions may over-estimate the prevalence of chronic infection.
Evidence from randomised controlled trials consistently supports the view that both oseltamivir and zanamivir are clinically effective for treating and preventing flu. However, evidence is limited for the treatment of certain populations and for all prevention strategies.
Although the current available evidence to support routine influenza vaccination is limited in CF, this study has shown that such practice may yet play a role in preventing its subsequent acquisition.
These findings supported the effectiveness of this exercise protocol in decreasing the intensity of shoulder pain which interferes with functional activity in wheelchair users.
Whereas the pain alleviation induced by a single rTMS treatment is probably due to placebo, patients with SCI may benefit from a series of rTMS treatments.
These results demonstrate that long-term twice-weekly exercise training in this population is feasible, and results in significant gains in both physical and psychological well-being.
This home-based intervention was effective in reducing long-standing shoulder pain in people with SCI. The reduction in pain was associated with improvements in muscle strength and health-related and overall QOL.
On average, CES appears to have provided a small but statistically significant improvement in pain intensity and pain interference with few troublesome side effects. Individual results varied from no pain relief to a great deal of relief.
These findings emphasize the importance of continued exercise adherence to the maintenance of exercise-related increases in psychological well-being among individuals with SCI.
A primary fitness program using arm crank ergometry does not increase shoulder pain in people with SCI who use wheelchairs. Further investigation with a larger group and what constitutes clinically significant changes on the WUSPI is warranted to confirm our results.
Our results suggest the OMT is a feasible approach in patients in whom available drugs cannot be used. Moreover, a benefit can be expected by the association of OMT in patients treated according to existing pharmacological protocols.
High-frequency (5- or 10-Hz) rTMS of the precentral gyrus can reduce intractable deafferentation pain, but low-frequency stimulation (at 1 Hz) cannot. Patients with a noncerebral lesion are more suitable candidates for high-frequency rTMS of the precentral gyrus.
Many patients are not finding adequate pain relief from commonly prescribed medications. Alternative therapies should be considered as additional treatment options in this population.
Many SCI pain treatments have been tried. Acupuncture/magnetising, cannabis/alcohol, and physiotherapy and exercise were considered most effective. Further research is needed to establish effective SCI pain treatments.
'F' & 'E' implementation made a significant contribution to the reduction of active trachoma. Community participation and collaborative efforts of partners are crucial. The indicators used to monitor F & E strategies are interrelated and therefore should be evaluated together.
Mass balance during isovolemic CVVH is significantly affected by the type of replacement fluid administered prefilter. Isovolemic CVVH is not isonatremic and the use of bicarbonate-buffered fluid results in a significant accumulation of chloride and a loss of magnesium.
CVVH with lactate-buffered replacement fluids induces iatrogenic hyperlactatemia. Such hyperlactatemia is associated with an acidifying effect despite a positive buffer-base balance.
CVVH and EDDf as prescribed achieved similar control of urea, creatinine and electrolytes. Acidosis was better controlled with CVVH.
CRRT results in significant losses and negative balances of selenium, copper, and thiamine, which contribute to low plasma concentrations. Prolonged CRRT is likely to result in selenium and thiamine depletion despite supplementation at recommended amounts.
HVHF decreases vasopressor requirements in human septic shock and affects anaphylatoxin levels differently than standard CVVH.
We have developed a simple approach to regional citrate anticoagulation for CVVH using a commercial citrate-containing fluid as replacement fluid. Increasing citrate concentration from 11 to 14 mmol/L increased filter life while maintaining relative safety and simplicity.
CAVH is equivalent to HD in terms of MAP and the use of vasopressive drugs and fluids. Establishing the superiority of CAVH would require carefully controlled studies assessing either outcome or changes in tissue oxygenation.
There are significant risk factors for death among patients with acute renal failure in intensive care units, which need to be identified at an early stage for early treatment.
TNF-alpha and IL-10 gene polymorphisms are related to the risk of death among patients with ARF who require dialysis. Larger studies are needed to confirm these relationships.
Treatment with a high-dose folic acid, B6, and B12 multivitamin in kidney transplant recipients did not reduce a composite cardiovascular disease outcome, all-cause mortality, or dialysis-dependent kidney failure despite significant reduction in homocysteine level.
Findings are comparable to published data from healthy women and warrant replication in larger, more diverse samples of women treated for breast cancer.
Our results demonstrate a beneficial effect of the treatment of hyperhomocysteinemia by vitamin supplementation on cIMT in a group of RTRs.
Folic acid supplementation reduces both the plasma total homocysteine level and carotid intima-media thickness shortly after kidney transplant.
Intravenous NAC profoundly reduces tHcy level in renal transplant recipients. Further research is needed to establish the effect of orally administered NAC on plasma homocysteine concentration in this clinical condition.
Based on these data B vitamin supplementation may decrease blood homocysteine and improve endothelial function in renal transplant recipients with hyperhomocysteinemia.
Treatment with B vitamins did not lower the risk of recurrent cardiovascular disease after acute myocardial infarction. A harmful effect from combined B vitamin treatment was suggested. Such treatment should therefore not be recommended. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Folic acid based homocysteine lowering does not reduce cardiovascular events in people with kidney disease. Folic acid based regimens should not be used for the prevention of cardiovascular events in people with kidney disease.
Supplements combining folic acid and vitamins B6 and B12 did not reduce the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with vascular disease. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Using SINASC data, there was a significant reduction in spina bifida birth prevalence in Brazil, probably related to the folic acid food fortification program.
High-dose folic acid does not slow atheroma progression or improve cardiovascular morbidity or mortality in patients with CRF.
In this trial, adjunctive lacosamide significantly reduced seizure frequency in patients with uncontrolled partial-onset seizures. Along with favorable pharmacokinetic and tolerability profiles, these results support further development of lacosamide as an AED.
Nitric oxide did not substantially improve pulmonary hemodynamics and gas exchange immediately after operation for congenital heart disease. Nitric oxide also failed to significantly decrease the incidence of pulmonary hypertensive crises.
Both inhaled NO and aerosolized iloprost were found to be effective and comparable in the management of pulmonary hypertension.
In this pilot study, aerosolized iloprost had a favorable safety profile. Larger trials are needed to compare its efficacy to iNO for the treatment of perioperative pulmonary hypertension. However, neither treatment alone abolished the occurrence of PHTCs.
Inhalation of NO reduced pulmonary artery pressure in children with severe pulmonary hypertension after cardiac surgery and this effect was maintained over several days at concentrations carrying little risk of toxicity.
Inhaled nitric oxide improves systemic oxygenation in infants with persistent pulmonary hypertension and may reduce the need for more invasive treatments.
Treatment with TIS for 28 days is an effective and well tolerated therapy for early P aeruginosa infection in patients with CF.
No superiority of treatment under study was demonstrated in comparison to the reference treatment. Early eradication treatment was associated with an increase in S maltophilia.
Children with CF who fail to eradicate after initial antibiotic treatment are at higher risk of subsequent exacerbation, suggesting clinical benefit to successful early eradication of Pa infection.
No difference in the rate of exacerbation or prevalence of P aeruginosa positivity was detected between cycled and culture-based therapies. Adding ciprofloxacin produced no benefits.
Once-daily Arikace demonstrated acute tolerability, safety, biologic activity and efficacy in patients with CF with P aeruginosa infection.
Aggressive AET of new infection of P aeruginosa in adults is successful in the majority of patients and has similar efficacy to the reported efficacy in paediatric populations.
TSI treatment improved pulmonary function and weight gain in adolescent patients with CF over a 2-year period of long-term, intermittent use.
In patients with CF, PA airway infection, moderate-to-severe lung disease, and no recent use of antipseudomonal antibiotics or azithromycin, 28-day treatment with AZLI significantly improved respiratory symptoms and pulmonary function, and was well tolerated.
FTI maintained the substantial improvements in FEV(1) % predicted achieved during the AZLI run-in and was well tolerated. FTI is a promising antipseudomonal therapy for patients with CF.
Respiratory exacerbations in young children are markers for progressive CF lung disease and are potential trial outcome measures for novel treatments in this age group.
Adverse events are common with BAL in young CF children, but are usually transient and well tolerated. Parents should be counseled that signs of a pre-existing lower respiratory infection are associated with increased risk of post-BAL fever.
In clinically stable children with CF, systemic antibiotics result in greater short-term reduction in lower airways inflammation than inhaled antibiotics.
Acquisition of P aeruginosa was common by 7 years of age in this CF birth cohort and was associated with increased morbidity and mortality. An improved disease severity score would improve the evaluation and study of early CF lung disease.
Once daily tobramycin combined with three injections of ceftazidime is safe and effective for the treatment of pseudomonas exacerbations in cystic fibrosis patients.
These results suggest that 12 hourly high peak aminoglycoside dosing may be less toxic than equivalent eight hourly dosing, without any apparent difference in efficacy.
ARF is increasingly being recognised in patients with CF. There is significant morbidity with most patients requiring dialysis. This study implicates intravenous aminoglycosides, particularly gentamicin, in the aetiology of ARF in CF.
In patients with CF the use of an intravenous aminoglycoside is a risk factor for ARF; gentamicin is more nephrotoxic than tobramycin. Most patients who develop ARF have a risk factor which necessitates withholding aminoglycosides or more closely monitoring their use.
Findings support the feasibility of implementing a manual-based CBT in an urban school setting. Responder rates among African-American adolescents were similar to those found in studies with white youths.
This pilot study provides evidence for a moderate short-term effect of CBGT-A for treating female adolescents suffering from social phobia and indicates that treatment of social phobia may result in a reduction of major depression.
Results suggest that developmentally modified parent-child CBT may show promise in 4- to 7-year-old children.
Specific delivery of cognitive-behavioral skills is more efficacious in the treatment of childhood anxiety than a treatment that includes only nonspecific therapy factors.
The cognitive-behavioral treatment program was similarly effective in anxious children with and without comorbid disorders; both groups showed clinically significant reductions in pretreatment diagnoses and symptoms.
Children with anxiety disorders profited from cognitive-behavioral therapy. Children improved equally whether or not additional parent training was offered.
Results indicate the short-term efficacy of a disorder-specific treatment approach for SAD, and are among the first to indicate that CBT programs work with young children.
Both cognitive behavioral therapy and sertraline reduced the severity of anxiety in children with anxiety disorders; a combination of the two therapies had a superior response rate. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The CBT manual employed in this study is one of the first adaptations of an evidence-based treatment for children with autism spectrum disorders. Remission of anxiety disorders appears to be an achievable goal among high-functioning children with autism.
This study provides support for the use of simplified cognitive-behavioral interventions for adolescents with social phobia that are practical for community psychiatric settings.
Both fluoxetine and SET-C are efficacious for social phobia, although SET-C appears to provide added benefit by enhancing social skills.
Both active CBT treatments were more effective than the no-treatment control condition in decreasing child anxiety symptoms and associated impairment. When parent training was combined with child group CBT, there were some additional benefits for the children.
This new parenting-based intervention may represent an advance in the treatment of this previously neglected group.
Cognitive-behavioral treatment of school refusal was efficacious and acceptable. The relative contributions of child therapy and parent/teacher training require further study.
Overall, results suggest that psychosocial treatments are effective at returning school-phobic children to school and that the highly structured cognitive-behavioral approach may not be superior to more traditional educational and supportive treatment methods.
Although discrepancies exist among our informants, our overall findings suggest important information is obtained from each informant and, when combined with certain modifying characteristics, may lead to diagnostic and treatment decisions.
Overall, results suggest that children with anxiety disorders are relatively well adjusted in young adulthood. However, a history of comorbid depression is prognostic of a more negative outcome.
Consistent with past research, the study's findings provide further evidence that the short-term benefits of exposure-based CBT for childhood phobic and anxiety disorders using both group and individual treatment may extend into the critical transition years of young adulthood.
Rates of CP and neurological impairment are difficult to obtain in resource-poor settings. Methods of identifying children with CP and causal factors and the effects of disability need to be better classified in order to improve management and help shape preventive measures.
The individual asymmetrical postural deformities are not unrelated in terms of direction and not equally distributed to the left/right. A pattern of postural deformity was observed.
Intranasal desmopressin was as effective as blood transfusion in achieving hemostasis in cirrhotic patients with moderate coagulopathy undergoing dental extraction. Intranasal desmopressin was much more convenient, less expensive, and well tolerated.
The results of the survey suggest that with the exception of recommending ORS for rehydration and continuation of breast-feeding during diarrhoea, a minority of responding European physicians follow the ESPGHAN guidelines for optimal management of children with acute gastroenteritis.
A combination of CBT plus SSRIs is not more cost-effective in the short-term than SSRIs alone for treating adolescents with major depression in receipt of routine specialist clinical care.
For adolescents with moderate to severe major depression there is no evidence that the combination of CBT plus an SSRI in the presence of routine clinical care contributes to an improved outcome by 28 weeks compared with the provision of routine clinical care plus an SSRI alone.
Clinicians should assess for severity, suicidality and comorbid obsessive-compulsive disorder at presentation and should monitor closely for subsequent life events during treatment.
Imipramine plus CBT is significantly more efficacious than placebo plus CBT in improving school attendance and decreasing symptoms of depression in school-refusing adolescents with comorbid anxiety and depression.
Adolescents with school refusal are a heterogeneous population and require individualized treatment planning. Variables such as diagnosis and severity at the start of treatment should be taken into consideration when planning treatment.
All treatments led to a reduction in depression, but the advantages of a combined approach were not evident.
Both fluoxetine and combination therapy are at least as cost-effective in the short-term as other treatments commonly used in primary care (using a threshold of $125,000/QALY). Fluoxetine is more cost-effective than combination therapy after 12 weeks of treatment.
These findings support the use of combination treatment in adolescents with depression over monotherapy.
In the acute treatment of depressed adolescents, FLX and COMB accelerate response relative to PBO, and COMB accelerates response relative to CBT alone.
In contrast to earlier reports on short-term treatments, in which worsening after treatment is the rule, the longer treatment in the TADS was associated with persistent benefits over 1 year of naturalistic follow-up.
A specific intervention for adolescents at high risk for repeated suicide attempts has been developed and manual based, and further testing of its efficacy seems feasible.
These preliminary results suggest that continuation phase CBT reduces the risk for relapse by eightfold compared with pharmacotherapy responders who received antidepressant medication alone during the 6-month continuation phase.
Substantial levels of parental burden resulted from child psychiatric disorders and were a major reason for specialist mental health service use.
Psychological forms of intervention are significantly linked to clinical improvement in depressive symptomatology and may be useful for supplementing usual GP care.
Cognitive behavior therapy is more efficacious than SBFT or NST for adolescent MDD in clinical settings, resulting in more rapid and complete treatment response.
Antidepressants may cause a small short-term risk of self-harm or suicidal events in children and adolescents with major depressive disorder.
Provided that training needs can be met, HoNOSCA represents a satisfactory brief outcome measure which could be used routinely in child and adolescent mental health services.
The CDRS-R showed greater effect size for differentiating drug and placebo and better test information than the MADRS in this study of depressed children.
Interpersonal psychotherapy delivered in school-based health clinics is an effective therapy for adolescent depression. This effort is a significant step toward closing the gap between treatment conducted in the laboratory and community clinic.
These studies support the growing body of evidence indicating that opening of the cyclopropyl ring of tranylcypromine to form amphetamine, a drug of abuse, is not significant at usual doses of tranylcypromine.
CPAP alone had no effect on mucus clearance, sputum properties, or  expectorated volume, and did not potentiate the effect of HTS alone in CF subjects.
Dornase alfa is equally efficacious when delivered before or after physiotherapy/PEP in patients with CF. Patients who are colonized persistently with P aeruginosa may derive more improvement in FEV1 when dornase alfa is delivered after physiotherapy/PEP.
There were no differences in sputum clearance or pulmonary-function measures between mask PEP and short-term administration of either CPAP or NPPV combined with directed cough. After mask PEP these patients felt more tired than after CPAP or NPPV secretion-clearance therapy.
Respiratory physiotherapy with incentive spirometry significantly increases sputum clearance in cystic fibrosis patients, with no immediate repercussions on lung function or symptoms.
The current prevalence of doctor-diagnosed asthma among adults is 4.4%, and allergic rhinitis, nasal polyposis and aspirin intolerance are associated with an increased risk of asthma. There is also association between aspirin-induced asthma and allergic-like rhinitis.
There was a higher frequency of chronic colonization of P aeruginosa in the lower respiratory tract in patients with nasal polyps. Otherwise, nonsevere nasal polyposis was not an indicator of lower respiratory tract morbidity in CF patients.
Picornavirus and non-picornavirus colds are associated with pulmonary function abnormalities and disease progression in patients with cystic fibrosis, and predispose to secondary bacterial infection and colonisation.
As respiratory virus infections have the same seasonal distribution in Denmark such infections may pave the way for P aeruginosa and thus explain the parallel seasonal occurrence of this pathogen in patients with cystic fibrosis.
Oral controlled-release budesonide (6 mg/day) was well tolerated and prolonged remission in Crohn's disease of the ileum and proximal colon, but this effect was not sustained at 1-year follow-up.
Oral budesonide, 6 mg daily, offered no benefit in prevention of endoscopic recurrence after surgery for ileal/ileocecal fibrostenotic CD but decreased the recurrence rate in patients who had undergone surgery for disease activity.
Over a 1-year period, controlled-release budesonide was significantly more effective than mesalamine for maintaining remission and improving the QOL of patients with steroid-dependent Crohn's disease.
In patients with steroid-dependent inflammatory Crohn's ileocolitis or proximal colitis who achieve clinical remission with conventional steroids, a 1-year treatment with AZA was superior to BUD in achieving and maintaining mucosal healing and histologic remission.
These data support the assumption that the absorptive capacity of the intestinal mucosa for water may be improved by topically acting steroids and suggest that this occurs independently of their anti-inflammatory effect.
Oral budesonide 9 mg od (for up to 8 weeks) may offer a new treatment option for Japanese patients with mild-to-moderate active Crohn's disease.
Patients with CD receiving maintenance treatment for 2 yr with prednisone show little change in BMD, whereas treatment with budesonide may be associated with LS and FN bone loss. Budesonide does not confer an advantage over low-dose prednisone for the preservation of BMD.
Intestinal contents trigger postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease in the terminal ileum proximal to the ileocolonic anastomosis in the first days after surgery.
The elevated alveolar-arterial oxygen difference that is seen in subjects who are in conditions of extreme hypoxia may represent a degree of subclinical high-altitude pulmonary edema or a functional limitation in pulmonary diffusion.
Supplemental oxygen should not routinely be given to nonhypoxic stroke victims with minor or moderate strokes. Further research is needed to give conclusive advice concerning oxygen supplementation for patients with severe strokes.
While these results do not explain the overall case fatality decline in ARDS, they do indicate that sepsis syndrome remains the leading cause of death and suggest that future therapies to improve survival be targeted at reducing the complications of sepsis.
Influenza vaccination of 6- to 30-month-old children in day care was associated with a decreased incidence of otitis media during the influenza season. Myringotomy tubes protected against AOM and SOM during all 16 weeks monitored.
CAIV-T was well tolerated and effective in preventing culture-confirmed influenza illness over multiple and complex influenza seasons in young children in Asia.
Cold-adapted influenza vaccine-trivalent was well tolerated and effective in preventing culture-confirmed influenza illness in children as young as 6 months of age who attended day care.
CAIV-T was well tolerated in these children with RTIs and demonstrated superior relative efficacy compared with TIV in preventing influenza illness.
A live attenuated, cold-adapted influenzavirus vaccine was safe, immunogenic, and effective against influenza A(H3N2) and B in healthy children.
Inactivated influenza vaccine did not reduce the attack rate of influenza A infection in 6-24 month old children.
Influenza vaccine with the MF59 adjuvant is efficacious against PCR-confirmed influenza in infants and young children. (Funded by Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Accordingly, vaccination of young children against RSV as well as S. pneumoniae and H. influenzae is important in improving the prognosis in AOM.
Our results suggest that various respiratory viruses contribute to the pathogenesis of acute otitis media (AOM).
Morphine, 1 mg intraarticular, in 30 ml 0.25% bupivacaine, with 1:200,000 epinephrine, may provide superior postoperative analgesia for up to 24 h versus bupivacaine or morphine alone.
Intraoperative periarticular injection with multimodal drugs can significantly reduce the requirements for patient-controlled analgesia and improve patient satisfaction, with no apparent risks, following total knee arthroplasty.
Femoral block is associated with lower opioid consumption and a better recovery at 6 weeks than periarticular infiltration. Early postoperative activity measures (2MWT and walking time) were proved to be possible indicators of knee function recovery at 6 weeks after surgery.
These results support the use of moderate sensitivity POC tests in scenarios where many women will not return for treatment, and in populations where the delay in treatment would result in significant STI transmission.
Neuroimaging results in children with CP are commonly abnormal and may help determine the etiology. Screening for associated conditions is warranted as part of the initial evaluation.
Function and gait improvements were greater in preadolescents.
Our observations of smaller muscles on the hemiplegic side and changes in muscle work on both sides can help us distinguish between primary deviations that may potentially be treatable and compensatory mechanisms that should not be treated.
For this cohort of participants with spastic diplegia CP who ambulated with or without an assistive device, strength was highly related to function and explained far more of the variance than spasticity. The results may not be generalized to those with more severe forms of CP.
Some impairment characteristics may be used to identify children who are at risk for deterioration in gross motor function, and may serve as a guide for interventions.
The CAS method provided a more accurate and reproducible tunnels placement without clinical significant effect.
No significant differences were found between computer-assisted and manually navigated anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with regard to tunnel placement and clinical results at a mean of 2 years postoperatively.
Navigated knee replacement provides few advantages over conventional surgery on the basis of radiographic end points. Its clinical benefits are unclear and remain to be defined on a larger scale.
This cadaver study shows that computer assisted planning may reduce intersurgical variance.
Lysis/stenting treatment was more effective than conventional treatment in patients with iliofemoral vein thrombosis.
This preliminary evidence suggests that UACDT may be a safe and effective option for the delayed treatment of lower limb DVT.
The economic burden of DVT is substantial. The use of measures to prevent the occurrence of PTS and favoring outpatient care of DVT has the potential to diminish costs.
This study provides estimates of incidence and mortality of a first VT event in the general population.
In patients with symptomatic proximal DVT, PEVI plus anticoagulation may be superior to anticoagulation-alone in the reduction of VTE and PTS at 6 months.
This study demonstrates a sustained suppression of neointimal proliferation by sirolimus-eluting Bx VELOCITY stents 1 year after implantation.
Daptomycin (6 mg per kilogram daily) is not inferior to standard therapy for S. aureus bacteremia and right-sided endocarditis. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Slow clinical response is common among patients with MRSA endocarditis who are treated with vancomycin or vancomycin plus rifampin. Nevertheless, few complications appear to be related solely to this sustained bacteremia.
Therapy with intravenous immune globulin had no effect on the outcomes of suspected or proven neonatal sepsis.
Routine administration of intravenous immunoglobulin to preterm infants is not recommended.
Late-onset sepsis is a frequent and important problem among VLBW preterm infants. Successful strategies to decrease late-onset sepsis should decrease VLBW mortality rates, shorten hospital stay, and reduce costs.
Approximately 1 in 6 US patients undergoing integrase GRT for clinical decision making harbors significant resistance, with Q148 and N155 pathways equally common. Dolutegravir is likely to have full or partial activity against most variants observed.
Evidence from randomised controlled trials supports the use of triple therapy. Research is needed on the effectiveness of quadruple therapies and the relative effectiveness of specific combinations of drugs.
MK-0518 showed potent antiretroviral activity as short-term monotherapy and was generally well tolerated at all doses. Based on these results, part 2 of the study, a dose-ranging 48-week trial of MK-0518 versus efavirenz in a combination regimen, has been initiated.
Raltegravir as a film-coated tablet 400 mg twice daily (6 to <19 years, and ≥ 25 kg) and chewable tablet 6 mg/kg (maximum dose 300 mg) twice daily (2 to <12 years) was well tolerated and showed favorable virologic and immunologic responses.
Vitamin C supplementations after 14th weeks of gestation can prevent from PPROM in women with the history of PPROM.
Supplementation with vitamin C did not reduce the incidence of pre-eclampsia nor did it reduce the adverse maternal or neonatal outcomes. We do not recommend the use of vitamin C in pregnancy to prevent pre-eclampsia.
There appears to be no increased risk of cardiac or neuropsychiatric outcomes among subjects with influenza who were treated with oseltamivir in comparison with those who were not.
When combined with the treatment of index cases, prophylactic treatment of family members with once-daily inhaled zanamivir is well tolerated and prevents the development of influenza. In this study there was no evidence of the emergence of resistant influenza variants.
Adjuvant corticosteroids were significantly associated with higher mortality in critically ill patients with pH1N1 infection.
Positive results from 2 Phase 3 clinical trials have put fampridine-SR on the path toward approval as a medication for improving walking speed and lower extremity strength in patients with MS.
This large study definitely excludes the role of amantadine in addition of conventional combination therapy in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C patients.
Amantadine is a reasonable option for improving cognition and reducing agitation following a TBI but confirmatory evidence of the efficacy the drug is necessary.
For children presenting with influenza symptoms during a local influenza outbreak, treatment with antiviral therapy appears to offer the best outcome and often saves money. The choice of antiviral drug should be based on the prevalence of influenza B.
The cost per antibiotic prescription reduced with advance testing was yen604 (approximately 5.8 US dollars) in our clinical setting. Judicious use of antivirals and introduction of a simple CRP test kit would improve cost-effectiveness.
Use of antibiotic improves short term outcome substantially and therefore continues to be an appropriate management policy.
Our investigation supports that PcV treatment of AOM does not affect the recovery time or complication rates. PcV provided some symptomatic benefit in the treatment of AOM in otherwise healthy children, aged 2-16 years.
Oral antibiotic treatment significantly accelerates the resolution of acute tube otorrhea by reducing bacterial growth in middle-ear fluid.
Clinical determinants which are stated as criteria for antibiotic treatment of AOM in the Dutch national guideline were recognized by GPs as important items, but were frequently given too much weight.
Otoscopic findings are critical to accurate AOM diagnosis. AOM microbiology has changed with use of PCV7. Antibiotics are modestly more effective than no treatment but cause adverse effects in 4% to 10% of children. Most antibiotics have comparable clinical success.
In paediatric patients, the haemodilution associated with crystalloid priming causes a greater reduction in rSO(2) than with blood-containing prime at the starting period of CPB and the rewarming period.
The washing of irradiated red cells reduces potassium and lactate loads and prevents hyperkalaemia during cardiopulmonary bypass. The washing of irradiated red cells should be considered in neonates and infants undergoing cardiac surgery for complex congenital heart disease.
Using a restrictive transfusion protocol with a transfusion threshold of 7 g/dL in stable critically ill children is as safe as using a liberal protocol and can decrease the number of patients exposed to RBC transfusions.
In this subgroup analysis of pediatric general surgery patients, we found no conclusive evidence that a restrictive red-cell transfusion strategy, as compared with a liberal one, increased the rate of new or progressive MODS or mortality.
This single-center cohort study found transfusion was not associated with improved outcomes in neonates undergoing Norwood operations.
Hemodilution to hematocrit levels of 35% compared with those of 25% had no major benefits or risks overall among infants undergoing 2-ventricle repair. Developmental outcomes at age 1 year in both randomized groups were below those in the normative population.
Although both transfusion programs were well tolerated, our finding of more frequent major adverse neurologic events in the restrictive RBC-transfusion group suggests that the practice of restrictive transfusions may be harmful to preterm infants.
TRALI is common in critically ill ESLD patients with gastrointestinal bleeding. Nonleukoreduced red blood cells and FFP are significant transfusion-specific risk factors and their use should be re-evaluated in bleeding patients with ESLD.
In extremely low birth weight infants, maintaining a higher hemoglobin level results in more infants receiving transfusions but confers little evidence of benefit.
Causes of MV after surgery are heterogeneous, vary with time, and have variable impact on the duration of MV.
The amount of blood transfusion is independently associated with infections but not with mortality.
Montelukast did not improve the clinical course in acute bronchiolitis. No significant effect of montelukast on the T-helper 2/T-helper 1 cytokine ratio when given in the early acute phase could be demonstrated.
In this study, montelukast did not improve respiratory symptoms of post-RSV bronchiolitis in children.
In patients with EIW and low F(E)NO, the number of 'responders' to cromoglycate, formoterol and montelukast was similar. In a high F(E)NO population the response to inhaled corticosteroid was highly significant and comparable to previous studies.
In preschool-aged children, 12-week treatment with montelukast, compared with placebo, did not reduce the incidence of URI.
Alliin lyase was found to be a major garlic allergen in a garlic-allergic group of patients in Taiwan. The wide distribution of alliin lyase in Allium suggests it may be a new cross-reactive allergen.
Significant cough is the most reliable antecedent of wheezing during an RTI. It may be useful to consider individualized symptom patterns as a component of management plans intended to minimize wheezing episodes.
BCG-vaccinated subjects from this population can be considered to be infected by Mycobacterium tuberculosis as long as the induration is higher than 15 mm.
This program offers an effective and sustainable model for HBV catch-up vaccination and education that can be replicated throughout China, as well as in other underserved HBV-endemic regions, as a strategy to reduce chronic HBV infection, liver failure, and liver cancer.
There was a marked improvement in immunization coverage after the launch of the Campaign in Bihar. Therefore, best practices of the Campaign may be replicated in other areas where full immunization coverage is low.
Reading a dpt vaccine form enabled mothers to improve their knowledge of pertussis and pertussis vaccine.
The Community Mothers programme had sustained beneficial effects on parenting skills and maternal self-esteem 7 years later with benefit extending to subsequent children.
We document the feasibility and impact of a public/private partnership to improve immunization delivery on a statewide basis.
Both community mobilization and media campaigns significantly increased the knowledge of Vietnamese-American parents about hepatitis B vaccination, and the receipt of "catch-up" vaccinations among their children.
A web based decision aid significantly improved parental attitudes to MMR vaccination. Residual concerns about autism and bowel disease and the rare chance of serious complications remained as attitudinal barriers to some parents.
Despite implementation problems, a combined community and facility approach using participatory women's groups and quality improvement at health centres reduced newborn mortality in rural Malawi.
Mass mailings have at best had clinically trivial effects on increasing influenza vaccination among Medicare beneficiaries. Publication bias has contributed to continued use of a relatively ineffective intervention.
The results suggest that vaccination programmes should mainly focus on families with many children or parents of low educational level and not on the whole population.
Because nasal prongs are less prone to complications, and oxygenation in children is equally effective, they are a more appropriate method than the NP catheter for oxygen delivery to children in developing countries with acute lower respiratory tract infections.
A small number of clinical observations may be mostly responsible for the diagnostic value of the clinical examination of infants with symptoms of LRI. Concentrating on a limited group of findings appears to enhance the accuracy of the examination in detecting hypoxemia.
This study suggests that CPAP compared with ST improves ventilation in children with bronchiolitis and hypercapnoea.
This study supports an association between the incidence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity and the duration of exposure to arterial oxygen levels of 80 mm Hg or higher, measured transcutaneously.
In the long term, it appears that parents of ELBW children have adjusted fairly well to their work and family life. Although some negative effects were identified, there was still considerable support for active treatment of infants of borderline viability.
Although PAP falls with increasing age in both infants with chronic lung disease and healthy preterm infants, it remains persistently raised in infants with chronic lung disease until the end of the 1st year of life.
Attempts to keep oxygen saturation at a normal "physiological" level may do more harm than good in babies of less than 28 weeks gestation.
Medication review is needed in people with CKD and anaemia prior to considering erythropoietin or parenteral iron. Iron stores may be depleted in over >60% of people with normocytic anaemia. Prescribing oral iron has not corrected anaemia.
This study demonstrates that anaemia, at levels where treatment is indicated, occurs commonly in people with diabetes and CKD stage 3 or worse. The screening for anaemia in current diabetes management should be extended.
Similar intubation times and success rates were achieved in anatomically normal neonates and infants with the GCV as with DL. The GCV yielded faster time to best view and better views but longer tube passage times than DL.
In children, the GlideScope provided a laryngoscopic view equal to or better than that of direct laryngoscopy but required a longer time for intubation.
GV can provide similar intubation performance characteristics compared with DL when used for nasotracheal intubation in pediatric patients. However, experience is needed to be skillful in the GV to acquire comparable TTI with DL.
This study determined that traditional LEI teaching for nonanesthesia personnel using manikin alone is inadequate. A reevaluation of current standards in LEI teaching for nonanesthesia is required.
Airtraq laryngoscope is easier to master for novice personnel with a higher intubation success rate and shorter intubation duration compared with the Macintosh laryngoscope.
The results show that Aspergillus infections in the blood of bone marrow transplant patients can be dectected by PCR methods. Early detection of Aspergillus infections by PCR has the potential to positively impact patient mortality rate and provide cost savings to hospitals.
In addition to serial screening for GM antigenemia and radiological surveillance, PCR-ELISA may improve the rates of early diagnosis of IA and the management of patients with hematological malignancies.
We demonstrated, in the present study, the incidence of IA in leukemic patients and the usefulness of molecular assay for early diagnosis and monitoring of the treatment of IA.
Our results demonstrate the high sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility of this technique, and its usefulness for rapid laboratory diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.
The sensitivity of Aspergillus PCR testing is limited during antifungal therapy. The tendency for persistently positive PCR results to indicate a poor prognosis has to be confirmed in further studies.
Aspergillus mitochondrial DNA PCR-ELISA on BAL fluid is useful in the early diagnosis of IPA in neutropenic patients alone or, potentially, as an indication for thoracic computed tomography.
The use of qPCR with whole blood to detect and verify the 28S-ITS2 sequence is a specific and useful way to diagnose IA.
The two-step PCR assay allows for highly sensitive and specific detection of Aspergillus pathogens in vitro and in vivo. The detection with PCR has some value in the early diagnosis and helps us to make decision for antifungal therapy.
A combined monitoring strategy based on serum GM and Aspergillus DNA was associated with an earlier diagnosis and a lower incidence of IA in high-risk hematological patients. Clinical Trials Registration. 
We consider useful the GA detection in serum combined with culture and GA in respiratory samples, for diagnosis of AI. PCR requires further studies for standardization and set breakpoints.
The administration of prostaglandin E1 to neonates can cause gastric-outlet obstruction due to antral hyperplasia. Neonates who receive prostaglandin E1 at recommended doses for more than 120 hours should be closely monitored for evidence of antral hyperplasia.
Budesonide-MMX® 9 mg tablets induced a fast and significant clinical improvement of active left-sided UC without suppression of adrenocortical functions and without important toxicity EudraCT number 2004-000896-33.
The GCS budesonide administered in an oral controlled-release formulation seems to give an overall treatment result in active ulcerative colitis approaching that of prednisolone but without suppression of plasma cortisol levels. This concept merits further evaluation.
Budesonide MMX (9 mg) was safe and more effective than placebo in inducing remission in patients with active, mild to moderate UC.
In patients with c-GCS-dependent ulcerative colitis, a dose of 9 mg budesonide daily in an oral pH-modified-release formulation was well tolerated, significantly decreased the CAI, and rendered c-GCS unnecessary in the majority of cases.
This trial demonstrates a similar efficacy and safety of the two foams in patients with proctosigmoiditis.
In L-UC and UP, the efficacy and side-effect profile of topical mesalamine are dose independent and superior to oral therapies and topical steroids. Economic analysis suggests that use of these agents will also result in an overall decrease in patient costs.
Using new meta-analysis techniques we determined the risk of CRC in UC by decade of disease and defined the risk in pancolitics and children. We found a non-significant increase in risk over time and estimated how risk varies with geography.
Close surveillance and perhaps even prophylactic proctocolectomy should be recommended for patients given a diagnosis of pancolitis, especially those who are less than 15 years of age at diagnosis.
Vedolizumab was more effective than placebo as induction and maintenance therapy for ulcerative colitis. (Funded by Millennium Pharmaceuticals; GEMINI 1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Standard glucocorticosteroids are probably effective in inducing remission in UC, and may be of benefit in CD. Budesonide induces remission in active CD, but is less effective than standard glucocorticosteroids, and is of no benefit in preventing CD relapse.
Budesonide treatment for up to 1 year is well-tolerated in CD patients, with an AE profile similar to placebo and only rare occurrences of clinically important AEs associated with systemic GCSs.
Budesonide is as useful as prednisolone in treatment of active CD and it has a lower impact in serum cortisol levels. Nevertheless, at evaluated dose, it is not useful for maintenance therapy. In UC is as effective as conventional glucocorticoids.
In patients with active Crohn's disease affecting the ileum, the ascending colon, or both, a controlled-ileal-release formulation of budesonide was more effective in inducing remission than a slow-release formulation of mesalamine.
The rigorously developed PUCAI is a noninvasive, valid, highly reliable, and responsive index with which to assess disease activity in pediatric ulcerative colitis.
Childhood-onset IBD is characterized by extensive intestinal involvement and rapid early progression.
This new Simple Colitis Activity Index shows good correlation with existing more complex scoring systems and therefore could be useful in the initial assessment of patients with ulcerative colitis.
These data suggest that the combined prophylactic method of bilateral PCS and SCH is superior to SCH alone in the prevention of PE after cardiac surgery.
In selected patients with mechanical prostheses, moderate anticoagulation prevents thromboembolic events as effectively as conventional anticoagulation and reduces the incidence of hemorrhagic events.
In patients with mechanical heart valve replacements, low-dose aspirin (100 mg/d) in conjunction with oral anticoagulants at an INR of 2.0 to 3.0 is as effective as the use of high-dose aspirin (650 mg/d) in the prevention of systemic embolism.
There were no significant differences in efficacy between both groups, however, triflusal showed a significantly lower incidence of bleeding episodes.
In oncologic surgery, dermatan sulphate prevents VTE more effectively than heparin without increasing bleeding complications.
Our study revealed that in high volume centres and in selected patients without left atrial thrombus, heparin administration during PTMC is not associated with any additional protective effect against embolic events during short-term follow-up.
The results strongly indicate the effectiveness and safety of combined warfarin plus antiplatelet treatment after St. Jude Medical valve replacement for mitral (plus aortic) valve disease.
Data indicate that self-management of oral anticoagulation is a promising strategy in order to increase long-term survival in patients with mechanical prosthetic valves.
Through INR self-management, an improvement in the quality of ongoing oral anticoagulation could be shown. Starting this form of therapeutic control early after mechanical heart valve replacement appears to effect a further reduction in anticoagulant-induced complications.
Data demonstrate the efficacy and safety of very low-dose INR self-management.
Our study does not support the belief that bovine heparin is more likely than porcine heparin to induce the development of antibodies to heparin/platelet factor 4.
One year after MMVR, the association of aspirin with OAC reduced thrombi and thromboembolic events, but not morbidity, due to an increase in hemorrhagic complications.
Internal mammary artery graft patency at 1 year is not improved by aspirin plus dipyridamole or oral anticoagulant agents over that obtained with low dose aspirin alone. However, there is evidence that the overall clinical event rate increases if dipyridamole is added to aspirin.
The incidence of thrombotic events was low in both groups. There were no safety concerns, and desirudin was not associated with anti-PF4/heparin antibodies.
Preoperative antithrombin supplementation prevents heparin resistance and avoids excessive postoperative decrease of antithrombin activity.
VTE remains a common complication of cancer surgery, with a remarkable proportion of events occurring late after surgery. In patients undergoing cancer surgery, VTE is the most common cause of death at 30 days after surgery.
This study showed a high rate of DVT in patients entering cardiac rehabilitation after CABG surgery. Wearing unilateral graded compression stockings after CABG surgery had limited efficacy, as clots were often localized in legs contralateral to the saphenous vein harvest site.
Readmission within 30 days following discharge is an important adverse outcome of CABG surgery. Continued attempts should be made to explore the potential of readmission as a supplement to mortality in assessing provider quality.
Although pulmonary embolism is rare after isolated valve replacement, it is not an uncommon complication after coronary bypass surgery.
Venous thromboembolism is surprisingly common after pneumonectomy for malignancy and portends poor survival. Improved screening and better prophylaxis might prevent this complication and enhance outcome.
Pneumatic compression was found to effectively prevent postoperative PE. The right decubitus position is considered to be a risk factor for the development of postoperative PE in thoracic surgery.
Much additional work is needed to better understand the epidemiology and social impact of postischemic stroke seizures and epilepsy, their prevention, and optimal management.
Silent period shortening in this group reflects decreased inhibitory activity that may partly be related to functional or structural impairment of GABAergic interneurons. TMS may be of value for determining patients with stroke at risk for developing poststroke seizures.
Post-stroke infection can affect patients admitted with TIA as well as acute stroke, and it may be associated with poor short-term outcomes.
Lesion location and stroke subtype are strong determinants of ES risk, even after adjusting for stroke severity. ES does not predict 30-day mortality. SE occurs in more than one-quarter of patients with ES.
Poststroke late seizures occurred mainly in patients with putaminal and lobar hemorrhagic strokes but, if treated, did not affect rehabilitation therapy.
The decisive factor of ES was initial stroke severity. ES per se was not related to mortality. Surprisingly, in survivors, ES predicted a better outcome. We explain this finding by a relatively larger ischemic penumbra in patients who have an ES after a stroke.
The reported data may suggest a (neuro)protective effect of neonatal allopurinol treatment in moderately asphyxiated infants.
Embolisation is a safe and efficacious treatment for most pulmonary arteriovenous malformations. Long term studies are necessary to determine the risk of recanalisation.
Ischaemic strokes and brain abscesses occur commonly in undiagnosed HHT patients with PAVMs. Risk reduction could be improved.
The diagnosis of HHT should be considered in a child with an apparently isolated PAVM. Because serious complications may occur at any age, we recommend screening for PAVM and long-term follow-up in children from families with HHT, especially those with an ENG mutation.
PAVMs cause life-threatening complications in children; treatment with TCE is safe, with complication rates comparable to adult rates.
Embolotherapy of large PAVMs results in permanent occlusion in an overwhelming majority of patients. Continued patency due to recanalization or accessory artery growth is easily detected and treated.
Embolotherapy of PAVMs is efficacious and durable in the majority of patients. Patients should remain under regular review because recanalization of PAVMs or enlargement of untreated PAVMs can occur years after treatment.
Patients with diffuse PAVM are a high-risk group, and yearly follow-up is recommended.
Most HHT pregnancies proceed normally. Rare major complications, and improved survival outcome following prior recognition, means that pregnancy in a woman with HHT should be considered high risk. Recommendations for pregnancy management are provided.
Results suggest that greater efforts are needed to address social participation in children and youth with ABI. Information about functional activity at discharge and child and environmental factors may provide insight into post-discharge levels of participation and service needs.
The incidence rates reported here are much higher than those previously found. It is clear that TBIs constitute a major health issue and therefore it is important to have accurate information to enable planning for primary healthcare services and to inform prevention programmes.
TBI in children requiring intensive care is more common in those from poorer backgrounds who have been involved in accidents as pedestrians. The summer peak in injury occurrence for 0-10 year olds and late afternoon timing give clear targets for community based injury prevention.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors administered alone are useful in the treatment of delusional depression.
Major depressive episodes with psychotic features are relatively frequent in the general population, affecting four of 1,000 individuals. Feelings of worthlessness or guilt can be a good indicator of the presence of psychotic features.
The short-lived relief of pain in acute exudative pharyngitis in children with suspected infectious mononucleosis may suggest that a single oral dose of dexamethasone may not be sufficient and that additional doses may be necessary for ensuring lasting relief.
NIV is both applicable and beneficial in stabilizing blood gases, respiratory and cardiovascular parameters also in children with CNSD. Moreover its use shortens the hospital stay.
Our results confirm the good tolerance and physiologic short-term benefit of the MI-E in children with neuromuscular disease who were in a stable state.
NIV and tracheostomy can both prolong survival for SMA 1 patients, but the latter results in continuous ventilator dependence and speech does not develop.
Continuous NIV along with mechanically assisted cough and oximetry as needed can prolong life and obviate tracheotomy in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Unweanable patients can be decannulated and extubated to NIV plus mechanically assisted cough.
Noninvasive respiratory aids can prolong survival and permit extubation or decannulation of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy with no breathing tolerance.
NPPV can decrease hospitalisations for children with neuromuscular disease and improves sleep related respiratory parameters. A prospective study is now needed to further delineate the role of NPPV in this population of children.
In children with NMD intermittent nocturnal NIV results in objective and subjective improvements of sleep quality and symptoms associated with SDB.
IPV is a safe airway clearance method for tracheostomized Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients, and this preliminary study suggests that IPV increases the effectiveness of assisted mucus clearance techniques.
Periconceptional intake of thiamine, niacin and pyridoxine seems to contribute to the prevention of OFC.
Vitamin B-6 intakes of 3 to 4.9 mg/d appear consistent with the definition of a Recommended Dietary Allowance for most Americans. However, at that intake level, substantial proportions of some population subgroups may not meet accepted criteria for adequate vitamin B-6 status.
The normal diet of pregnant women in our health-care area is short on calcium, iron, folic acid and dietary fibre, although with an excess of animal protein and fat.
Elevated homocysteine and suboptimal vitamin B-12 and B-6 status may increase the risk of preterm birth. These results need to be confirmed in larger prospective studies.
A tailored intervention can achieve moderate salt restriction in patients with CKD, resulting in clinically meaningful falls in BP independent of hypertensive medication.
Short-term benefits of sodium restriction on BP were reflected in significant change in kidney function and fluid volume parameters. Larger, long-term adequately powered trials in CKD are necessary to confirm these results.
Using data from a randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial in asthma with objective confirmation of adherence to the low sodium diet, we report that adopting a low sodium diet for 6 weeks has no effect on measures of systemic inflammation or coagulation.
These results indicate that in ESRF patients, the insensitivity of PWV to decreased BP is an independent predictor of mortality and that use of ACE inhibitors has a favorable effect on survival that is independent of BP changes.
This cross-sectional study suggests that salt restriction and reduced prescription of antihypertensive drugs may limit LV hypertrophy, better preserve LV functions and reduce intradialytic hypotension in HD patients.
Salt restriction can be undertaken in free-living hypertensive subjects without any untoward changes in the intake of other nutrients.
Sodium intake is positively related to urinary albumin excretion. This relation is more pronounced in subjects with a higher BMI. These results suggest that high sodium intake may unfavourably influences cardiovascular prognosis especially in overweight and obese subjects.
Vitamin D insufficiency is associated with severe asthma exacerbations in Puerto Rican children, independently of racial ancestry, atopy, or markers of disease severity or control.
The Task Force recommendations provide a basis for a multicomponent assessment of asthma by clinicians, researchers, and other relevant groups in the design, conduct, and evaluation of clinical trials, and in clinical practice.
Vitamin D has a definite role in the management of moderate to severe persistent bronchial asthma as an adjunct to standard treatment.
ICG-guided PDT performed according to the parameters outlined by the TAP Study seems effective for treating chronic CSC. Further studies are needed to verify treatment safety and the time and rate of recurrences.
Photodynamic therapy with verteporfin therapy is a safe and well-tolerated treatment in patients with CNV associated with CSC. A randomized, controlled trial with a longer follow-up period is warranted to further study the efficacy of PDT in the management of CNV secondary to CSC.
The safety enhanced PDT protocol appeared to be beneficial for patients with chronic CSC. Further controlled study is warranted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this treatment option.
The results of this study show that the prevalence of H. pylori infection seems to be significantly higher in patients with CSC than in control s. H. pylori infection may represent a risk factor in patients with CSC.
A wide variety of systemic factors are associated with CSCR. Prospective studies are warranted to evaluate the nature and significance of these associations further.
Intravitreal bevacizumab injections generally resulted in anatomic improvement for CSC and may constitute a therapeutic option in CSC. The effect after intravitreal bevacizumab injection for CSC might be related to the hyperfluorescence on indocyanine green angiography.
Factors associated with reduced visual acuity during long-term follow-up of patients with ICSC included persistent pigment epithelial detachment and/or subretinal fluid, recurrences, and submacular choroidal neovascularization.
OCT may offer a new approach to the staging and knowledge of ICSC, and may help the understanding of the mechanisms of the disease.
CSC with associated retinal PED may be seen and generally has a good visual prognosis. The most frequent outcome is resolution with retinal pigment epithelial atrophy. Subfoveal PED occurs less commonly and may have a poorer visual prognosis.
Tomographic ICG-A after PDT reveals persistence of CNV and/or the feeder vessel and a reduction in perfusion within the entire photosensitized area, including the surrounding choroid. Repair mechanisms occur slowly in neovascular and normal choroidal structures.
Our extended approach provides quantitative guidance for addressing missing participant data in systematic reviews of trials using different instruments to measure the same construct.
Across a range of correlations between pre- and post-treatment scores and at varying levels and direction of baseline imbalance, ANCOVA remains the optimum statistical method for the analysis of continuous outcomes in RCTs, in terms of bias, precision and statistical power.
Low-dose fructose improves the glycemic response to an oral glucose load in adults with type 2 diabetes, and this effect is not a result of stimulation of insulin secretion.
Pooled analyses demonstrated conditional triglyceride-raising and total cholesterol-lowering effects of isocaloric fructose exchange for carbohydrate in type 2 diabetes. Recommendations and large-scale future trials need to address the heterogeneity in the data.
In this open, multicentered, uncontrolled study, 4 months' of treatment with citalopram (20 mg/d) were associated with an improvement in depressive symptoms and reduction in seizure frequency.
These findings contrast with previous findings in smaller cohorts. The association between non-lesional focal epilepsy and depression may be due to the effects of a more diffuse epileptogenic area.
Proconvulsant effects are associated with a subgroup of psychotropic drugs. Second-generation antidepressants other than bupropion have an apparent anticonvulsant effect. Depression, psychotic disorders, and OCD are associated with reduced seizure threshold.
Treatment of depression may be inadequately prioritized in the management of intractable epilepsy.
Epilepsy was significantly associated with depression and depression was observed to be highly prevalent in PWE. These findings highlight the importance of proper identification and management of depression in PWE.
Robust and rapid antidepressant effects resulted from a single intravenous dose of an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist; onset occurred within 2 hours postinfusion and continued to remain significant for 1 week.
There are large differences between ENT and EM physicians with respect to: the use of systemic antibiotics, techniques of using ototopical antibiotics, methods of aural toilet in treating AOMT, and directions given to patients.
A statistically and clinically valid model has been developed that has prognostic value for the clinician treating children with otorrhea and tympanostomy tubes and serves as an aid in the appropriate choice of empiric therapy.
In the great majority of children, AOM is a coinfection with bacteria and viruses. The patent tympanostomy tube does not change the spectrum of causative agents in AOM. A microbiological etiology can be established in practically all cases.
Our survey confirms that otorrhea is a common sequela in children with tympanostomy tubes, which occurrence can be predicted by age, medical history and presence of older siblings.
Overall grade B evidence seems to indicate that no significant antibiotic resistance develops from the use of ototopical antibiotic treatment.
Despite a stable rate of CSI, rate of CSCT increased significantly over time, especially among patients initially evaluated at a GED.
Although CCR and NLC criteria may reduce the need for C-spine imaging in children 10 years and younger; they are not sensitive or specific enough to be used as currently designed.
A simple decision instrument based on clinical criteria can help physicians to identify reliably the patients who need radiography of the cervical spine after blunt trauma. Application of this instrument could reduce the use of imaging in such patients.
We demonstrated a high degree of variability of CSI patterns, treatments and outcomes in children. The rarity, variation, and morbidity of pediatric CSIs make prompt recognition and treatment critical.
A comprehensive knowledge of the special anatomy and biomechanics of the spine of children is essential in diagnosis and treating issues related to spine injuries.
Plain radiographs had a high sensitivity for cervical spine injury in our pediatric cohort.
Cervical spine injuries occur in children across a spectrum of ages. Although atlanto-occipital dislocation is a highly lethal event, children with C1 to C7 injuries have a high likelihood of reasonable independent functioning.
For alert patients with trauma who are in stable condition, the CCR is superior to the NLC with respect to sensitivity and specificity for cervical-spine injury, and its use would result in reduced rates of radiography.
Medical complications are common sequelae for adults with pediatric-onset SCI. Demographic, impairment, and functional limitation factors are associated with these complications and can be used to identify at-risk individuals.
Fixation of the KPro by a root of the patient s own tooth (OOKP) leads to the best results in the long-term follow up, as our results as well as the literature demonstrate. As long as a KPro is in place, the visual acuity is as good as the retinal function. For the ranking of different types of KPro, the percentage and the duration of the anatomic success are most important. The comparability of the various KPro results may be limited, since the patients were not randomised and the four groups differ in number.
The Boston type I KPro is an effective option for management of eyes with poor prognosis for primary or repeat penetrating keratoplasty. Visual potential is limited by preoperative comorbidities; however, glaucoma development or progression of preexisting glaucoma is a significant cause of postoperative visual loss. Rigorous perioperative management of elevated IOP is essential for long-term success of KPro surgery.
The Boston type 1 keratoprosthesis provides visual recovery for eyes with multiple PK failures or with poor prognosis for primary PK, showing excellent retention rates. However, there is a trend towards a decline in visual acuity with time and the development of late complications, highlighting a need for longer-term studies.
Most KPro candidates have glaucoma, which may deteriorate in a subset of patients after surgery. Dramatic VA improvement after KPro surgery does not preclude the need for rigorous monitoring for glaucoma progression. A low threshold should be used to treat suspicion of even slightly elevated intraocular pressure.
"High-risk" preoperative conditions, postoperative complications, and the need for additional surgical interventions may decrease graft survival. Close follow-up, extended use of antiinflammatory, antiviral, and immunosuppressive drugs, and avoiding additional surgical interventions as much as possible may decrease graft failure and the need for repeated keratoplasties.
The 5-year and 10-year survival rates in this series demonstrate that PKP is a safe and effective treatment for the corneal diseases commonly transplanted in the United States. However, endothelial failure and immunologic graft rejection were persistent risks over the long term, supporting the need for continued patient follow-up. Regrafts, aphakic eyes without intraocular lens placement at the time of transplant, and corneas with deep stromal vascularization had reduced graft survival rates. Pseudophakic bullous keratopathy grafts with a retained posterior chamber intraocular lens were at increased risk of endothelial failure compared with primary grafts done for other causes or compared with pseudophakic bullous keratopathy grafts done with intraocular lens exchange.
In this small short-term study, refractive outcomes were better in aphakic patients than in patients who were left pseudophakic. Although not frequent, posterior segment complications after IOL explantation might necessitate further surgeries and cause decreased visual acuity during long-term follow-up in the aphakic group.
Stable SGA preterm infants on a very early feeding regimen achieved full enteral feeding and were discharged home significantly earlier than those on a delayed regimen, with no excess morbidity.
Intrauterine growth restriction within the range of 501 to 1500 g birth weight is associated with increased risks of neonatal death, necrotizing enterocolitis, and respiratory distress syndrome. Prenatal corticosteroid use was associated with decreased risks of all outcomes studied except necrotizing enterocolitis. We found no evidence that this benefit was dependent on fetal size.
These data suggest that the duration of trophic feeding and rate of advancement of feed volumes may be modifiable risk factors for NEC in preterm infants. Further randomised controlled trials are warranted to assess the effect of different rates of feed advancement on the incidence of NEC, as well as other outcomes.
The administration of inositol to premature infants with respiratory distress syndrome who are receiving parenteral nutrition during the first week of life is associated with increased survival without bronchopulmonary dysplasia and with a decreased incidence of retinopathy of prematurity.
Clinical information combined with laboratory data provides additional insights into the characteristics of non-CF bronchiectasis in a large population of Italian children. This study highlights the need for longitudinal evaluations, also using HRCT, of severe and non-resolving pneumonia in children.
Children with DS and WS display atypical developmental patterns in the earliest stages of reading, further underlining the importance of cross-syndrome, longitudinal research, which tracks all levels of development in neurodevelopmental disorders. Identifying early syndrome-specific profiles of strengths and weaknesses underlying literacy development is critical for planning intervention programmes.
Caries levels were higher than expected in this national survey and further away from the goals of the National Health Plan for 2010 than anticipated. Caries distribution was skewed with more than half of the children having low caries scores but a wide distribution of caries experience was seen among the remaining population.
The prevalence of approximal and occlusal caries was underestimated when clinical means only were employed. There was a significant increase in DS and DMFS scores from the clinical examination only when radiographic information was added across all age groups (P<0.001). This study confirms the value of bitewing radiographs in caries diagnosis.
In the context of public oral health programs, the authors consider it necessary to obtain two bitewing X-rays of the children's teeth before discharging them, as otherwise they could be told that they are healthy whereas, in fact, they present interproximal caries that could be treated by remineralization or restorative methods.
The risk of developing carious lesions in the sound proximal surfaces of both primary teeth and first permanent molars is low during the mixed dentition period; the progression of the external-half of enamel lesions of the first permanent molars is low for the first 3 years and becomes faster thereafter; and as the time period that the tooth exposed to cariogenic factors increases, the progression of the proximal caries is faster for all stages of the lesion in the primary teeth.
The findings indicate a marked decrease in average caries experience and an increased utilisation of dental services among Danish young men from 1972 to 1993. However, in 1993 the least privileged social group continued to maintain the highest average caries experience and the lowest rate of utilisation of regular dental care.
Non- and micro-invasive treatments have lower long-term costs than invasive therapy of proximal lesions. Micro-invasive therapy had the highest cost-effectiveness for treating D1 lesions in young patients. Decision makers with a willingness-to-pay over 16.73 € and 1.57 € for E2 and D1 lesions, respectively, will find micro-invasive treatment more cost-effective than non-invasive therapy.
The new hydrodynamic concept of hydrocephalus opens the possibility that ETV may be an effective treatment for communicating hydrocephalus. It thus constitutes an interchangeable alternative to shunting. Patient age, analysis of the causes of hydrocephalus, and mental state evaluation play important roles in outcome prediction in patients with communicating hydrocephalus who undergo ETV. Randomized clinical studies are needed to explore further the role of this treatment in communicating hydrocephalus therapy.
Patients suspected of having idiopathic NPH did not form a homogeneous group, making it difficult to select those who would most likely respond to CSF diversion. Of the diagnostic studies, the most reliable result was improvement in clinical symptoms following a lumbar puncture in which CSF was withdrawn. The use of a programmable valve is recommended because it offers advantages in preventing problems of over- and underdrainage.
While no difference was demonstrated between the groups for readiness to change behaviour, a clinically significant effect in reported exercise behaviour and diet were demonstrated in the intervention group. This interesting finding indicates a dissonance between the behaviour scale and actual behaviour change, potentially indicating a lack of sensitivity of the scale to detect a change in this patient group.
Although contact with patients in ambulatory clinical settings is limited due to time constraints, it is still possible to improve knowledge and initiate lifestyle changes utilizing motivational interviewing and a stage of change model. Stroke nurses may wish to consider these techniques in their practice setting.
A multifaceted pharmacist intervention including MI did not improve adherence or persistence to secondary stroke prevention therapy and had no impact on clinical outcomes. However, due to the high adherence rates, only little room for improvement existed. Future studies should focus on patients at high risk of nonadherence and include outcomes more sensitive to the impact of behavioral interventions.
Further studies that focus on these long-term and indirect expenditures are essential to assess the impact of new treatments on total stroke costs. Overall, the high costs associated with stroke clearly indicate there is an imperative need for effective preventive therapy, early critical care, and rehabilitation, which in turn will reduce the national expenditure for stroke-related healthcare services and improve productivity.
stroke incurs considerable societal costs. Our calculations show a high sensitivity to the underlying prevalence rates used. The findings highlight a need for further economic evaluations to ensure that there is an efficient use of resources devoted to the treatment of this disease.
Key implications from this review include the need for uniform language, studies targeting various populations and settings, valid and reliable measures, triangulation of and more practice-based evidence, standardized reporting criteria, and active and multimodal strategies.
The rate of PTX after insertion of CVCs is greatest in the last week of the month. If this effect can be verified in other centres, increased supervision of residents at the end of ICU rotations when placing CVCs should be considered. Whether this effect applies to other patient safety outcomes in the ICU also needs further study.
This study validated the previously derived four-variable DIVA score. A simpler three-variable rule was as predictive of failed IV placement on first attempt as the four-variable rule. Validation in nonpediatric EDs is needed to thoroughly evaluate generalizability.
Development of CVC sepsis or tunnel infection in close proximity to the time of CVC surgical placement suggests that factors other than the assigned dressing were associated with the occurrence of CVC-related infection in three cases. Although the MVPD group required dressing changes more frequently than every seven days (as specified by the protocol) because of exit-site drainage and nonocclusiveness, transparent dressings were more cost-effective than daily gauze dressings in this population.
The results of this study suggest that an increased risk of catheter colonization is associated with the use of hydrocolloid dressings, despite previous research suggesting that they significantly reduce microbial growth compared with standard polyurethane. The clinical significance of increased numbers of positive blood cultures in the polyurethane group requires further examination, although distinguishing between contamination and true infection in intensive care settings continues to be methodologically challenging. Further studies are required to determine whether these findings are generalizable across different study settings and whether similar outcomes are obtained when different brands of hydrocolloid dressing are used.
Use of CHGIS dressings with intravascular catheters in the intensive care unit reduced risk of infection even when background infection rates were low. Reducing the frequency of changing unsoiled adherent dressings from every 3 days to every 7 days modestly reduces the total number of dressing changes and appears safe.
A large randomized trial demonstrated that chlorhexidine-gel-impregnated dressings decreased the CRI rate in patients in the ICU with intravascular catheters. Highly adhesive dressings decreased dressing detachment but increased skin and catheter colonization. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Chlorhexidine-impregnated dressing is effective in reducing vascular and epidural catheter bacterial colonization and is also associated with a trend towards reduction in catheter-related bloodstream or CNS infections. A large randomized controlled trial is needed to confirm whether chlorhexidine-impregnated dressing is cost-effective in preventing bacterial infection related to vascular and epidural catheters.
Our analysis shows that a chlorhexidine-impregnated dressing is beneficial in preventing catheter colonization and, more importantly, catheter-related bloodstream infection and warrants routine use in patients at high risk of catheter-related bloodstream infection and central venous catheter or arterial catheter colonization.
Severity of scoliosis was not a key determinant of respiratory dysfunction. Posterior spinal fusion did not reduce the rate of respiratory function decline. These two points suggest that intrinsic respiratory muscle weakness is the main determinant of decline in respiratory function in DMD.
In this study of adult patients with CAP, telithromycin 800 mg once daily was an effective and fairly well-tolerated regimen for initial empiric treatment, with clinical and bacteriologic efficacy and tolerability equivalent to therapy with high-dose clarithromycin (500 mg twice daily).
Access to a rapid method for etiologic diagnosis of ARTIs may reduce antibiotic prescription rates at the initial visit in an outpatient setting. To sustain this effect, however, it seems necessary to better define how to follow and manage the patient according to the result of the test, which warrants further investigation.
In this study in adult outpatients with CAP, both doses of cefditoren demonstrated equivalence to amoxicillin/clavulanate based on rates of clinical and microbiologic cure. All 3 regimens were effective in resolving or improving the clinical signs and symptoms of CAP. Both cefditoren and amoxicillin/ clavulanate were well tolerated.
Oral treatment with Spfx was superior to ROXI for the treatment of moderately severe CAP. Spfx was effective for all isolated pathogens, including S pneumoniae, and may be an alternative for empiric treatment of CAP, especially in areas with a high incidence of beta-lactam-resistant pneumococci.
Moxifloxacin was statistically at least as effective as high-dose amoxicillin for treatment of mild-to-moderate, suspected pneumococcal CAP. Moxifloxacin may be an alternative for empiric CAP treatment, especially in areas where multidrug resistance in S pneumoniae is sufficiently prevalent to preclude routine penicillin.
The main reasons for administering systemic steroids were the presence of chronic respiratory comorbidity or severe clinical presentation, but therapy did not influence mortality or clinical stability; by contrast, steroid administration was associated with prolonged length of stay. Nevertheless the steroid group did not show an increased mortality as it was expected according to the initial Pneumonia Severity Index score. Influence of steroids on outcomes of CAP need to be further investigated through randomized clinical trial.
Both treatment regimens were well tolerated. Amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg was at least as effective clinically and as safe as amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia in adults in a country with a high prevalence of penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae and has a more convenient twice daily posology.
Telithromycin 800 mg administered once a day for 5 or 7 days was as effective and safe as clarithromycin 500 mg administered twice a day for 10 days in treating patients with CAP caused by common respiratory pathogens, including macrolide-resistant isolates, and pneumococcal bacteraemia.
In selected patients who had community-acquired pneumonia, PSI risk class II and III, and were treated with levofloxacin, outpatient care in the absence of respiratory failure, unstable comorbid conditions, complicated pleural effusions, and social problems was as safe and effective as hospitalization and provided greater patient satisfaction.
In preschool-age children with moderate-to-severe virus-induced wheezing, preemptive treatment with high-dose fluticasone as compared with placebo reduced the use of rescue oral corticosteroids. Treatment with fluticasone was associated with a smaller gain in height and weight. Given the potential for overuse, this preventive approach should not be adopted in clinical practice until long-term adverse effects are clarified. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
It may be possible to treat mild persistent asthma with short, intermittent courses of inhaled or oral corticosteroids taken when symptoms worsen. Further studies are required to determine whether this novel approach to treatment should be recommended.
A daily low-dose regimen of budesonide was not superior to an intermittent high-dose regimen in reducing asthma exacerbations. Daily administration led to greater exposure to the drug at 1 year. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and others; MIST ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
This study demonstrates that when patients with moderate asthma had reached a stable clinical condition with a high dose of budesonide, a low dose of budesonide (200 microg/d) is as effective as the standard dose (800 microg/d) in the control of symptoms and lung function over a period of several months. Furthermore, results showed that the addition of inhaled budesonide (800 microg/d) at onset of an asthmatic exacerbation has a beneficial clinical effect.
In patients who have persistent symptoms of asthma despite treatment with inhaled glucocorticoids, the addition of formoterol to budesonide therapy or the use of a higher dose of budesonide may be beneficial. The addition of formoterol to budesonide therapy improves symptoms and lung function without lessening the control of asthma.
There appears to be an association between recent conflict and higher rates of under-5 mortality, malnutrition and maternal mortality. Governments spend more on defence and less on health and education if there has been a recent conflict. SALW are the main weapon used and France and the UK appear to be the two main suppliers of SALW to SSA.
The results of this study suggest that hygiene education may be an effective approach to reduce the incidence and duration of diarrhoeal episodes in rural Zaire. Children aged 2 years appear to benefit the most. A Hawthorne effect of the education may contribute to diarrhoeal reductions.
The health-education package increased students' knowledge about soil-transmitted helminths and led to a change in behavior and a reduced incidence of infection within 1 school year. (Funded by UBS Optimus Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland; Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, ACTRN12610000048088.).
Although growth was similar across groups, children randomized to the handwashing promotion during their first 30 months of age attained global developmental quotients 0.4 SDs greater than those of control children at 5 to 7 years of age. These gains are comparable to those of at-risk children enrolled in publicly funded preschools in the United States and suggest that handwashing promotion could improve child well-being and societal productivity.
The additive impact of cleaning may not have been strong enough to impact absence above and beyond reductions attributable to the original WASH infrastructure improvements and basic hygiene education the schools previously received. Improving latrine conditions is important for the dignity and well-being of pupils, and investments and strategies are necessary to ensure that school toilets are clean and pupil-friendly.
A hand-disinfection system using an antimicrobial agent (chlorhexidine) reduces the rate of nosocomial infections more effectively than one using alcohol and soap. The improvement may be explained at least in part by better compliance with hand-washing instructions when chlorhexidine was used.
The tested antibacterial products did not reduce the risk for symptoms of viral infectious diseases in households that included essentially healthy persons. This does not preclude the potential contribution of these products to reducing symptoms of bacterial diseases in the home.
We conclude that intensified hand hygiene using water and soap together with behavioural recommendations can reduce the occurrence of self-reported acute illnesses in common work environment. Surprisingly, the occurrence of reported sick leaves also increased in the soap-and water-arm.
Choice of method among the ones presented had little effect on inference but affected the clinical interpretability of the findings. Incidence rate methods gave more clinically interpretable results than SMD. Poisson regression allowed for further adjustment for heterogeneity across studies. These data suggest that analysts who want to improve the clinical interpretability of their findings should consider incidence rate methods.
By focussing on determinants of behaviour change, we found hidden and valuable components in HH improvement strategies. Addressing only determinants such as knowledge, awareness, action control, and facilitation is not enough to change HH behaviour. Addressing combinations of different determinants showed better results. This indicates that we should be more creative in the application of alternative improvement activities addressing determinants such as social influence, attitude, self-efficacy, or intention.
General psychiatrists could help their patients with schizophrenia by using cognitive-behavioural techniques. Such techniques are well within the capability of general psychiatrists, but their application would involve more of the consultant's time spent in direct contact with patients with psychoses.
In a location where cognitive-behavioral therapy for schizophrenia was readily available, half of all patients were considered appropriate for referral. Improved engagement skills and more assertive outreach by therapists and consideration by referrers of the benefits of relapse prevention might bring the benefits of cognitive-behavioral therapy to a still broader group.
With respect to mortality, a substantial gap exists between the health of people with schizophrenia and the general community. This differential mortality gap has worsened in recent decades. In light of the potential for second-generation antipsychotic medications to further adversely influence mortality rates in the decades to come, optimizing the general health of people with schizophrenia warrants urgent attention.
As in other meta-analyses, CBTp had beneficial effect on positive symptoms. However, psychological treatment trials that make no attempt to mask the group allocation are likely to have inflated effect sizes. Evidence considered for psychological treatment guidance should take into account specific methodological detail.
The findings of this 5-year prospective study are largely consonant with the results obtained from prior short-term evaluations of the DARE curriculum, which have reported limited effects of the program upon drug use, greater efficacy with respect to attitudes, social skills, and knowledge, but a general tendency for curriculum effects to decay over time. The results of this study underscore the need for more robust prevention programming targeted specifically at risk factors, the inclusion of booster sessions to sustain positive effects, and greater attention to interrelationships between developmental processes in adolescent substance use, individual level characteristics, and social context.
Drug abuse prevention programs conducted during junior high school can produce meaningful and durable reductions in tobacco, alcohol, and marijuana use if they (1) teach a combination of social resistance skills and general life skills, (2) are properly implemented, and (3) include at least 2 years of booster sessions.
The negative impact of the program on baseline nonusers of alcohol and tobacco indicate that TCYL should not be delivered as a universal prevention intervention. The finding of a beneficial effect for baseline marijuana users further supports this conclusion. The programmatic and methodological challenges faced by the Adolescent Substance Abuse Prevention Study (ASAPS) and lessons learned offer insights for prevention researchers who will be designing similar randomized field trials in the future.
The lack of main effects of the program on dichotomous outcomes was contrary to previous studies. An effect on an ordinal count measure of hard drug use among both intervention conditions replicates previous work and suggests that this program effect may have been due to changes in cognitive misperception of drug use rather than behavioral skill.
The current study provides preliminary evidence for the utility of the e-TOKE program in correcting abstainers' misperceptions about others' marijuana use as well as making them perceive less disapproval for their abstention. However, more research with longer follow-ups is necessary to determine if changes in norms affect initiation rates over time.
Our failure to find any relationship between AYP status and the provision of EBC suggests that concerns about the potential adverse effects of NCLB on drug use prevention have yet to be validated. Implications of our results are discussed.
This school-based program showed no reduction in violence or substance use. The findings suggest that a program targeting non-Latino youth may not be optimal for reducing violence and substance use in Latinos; greater attention to cultural appropriateness and racial/ethnic differences may be needed. There was a decrease in intervention-group GPA but no significant change compared with controls. Further studies of the impact of school-based substance use and violence prevention programs on academics, and the effectiveness of afterschool or community-based programs compared to school-based programs are needed.
The course of mental illness in patients seeking specialist care for stress-related exhaustion was not related to sex or age. The burden of mental symptoms is high and similar for men and women, and at the 18 month follow-up, one-third of the study group still showed symptoms of burnout. A long duration of symptoms before consultation was associated with a prolonged time of recovery, which underlines the importance of early detection of stress-related symptoms.
Marijuana gateway effects may exist. However, our results demonstrate that the phenomena used to motivate belief in such an effect are consistent with an alternative simple, plausible common-factor model. No gateway effect is required to explain them. The common-factor model has implications for evaluating marijuana control policies that differ significantly from those supported by the gateway model.
This review provides long-term empirical evidence of the effectiveness of social influences programs in preventing or reducing substance use for up to 15 years after completion of programming. However, this conclusion is still somewhat tenuous given the lack of significant program effects reported in several studies and the great variability that existed in the level of internal and external validity across all studies.
Effort needs to be directed towards the development of improved evaluative solutions to the problems posed by these groups. There is still insufficient evidence to assess the effectiveness of the range of approaches to drugs education; more methodologically sound evaluations are required. There is also a need to target interventions to reflect the specific needs and experiences of recipients.
The results showed significant benefits of TEN compared with traction and hip spica cast in the treatment of femoral-shaft fractures in children. Further trials with longer follow-ups and comparison of TEN with other methods, such as external fixation, in children's femoral fractures are warranted.
Treatment of open femur fractures in children is a challenging problem. Treatment with IM devices had fewer complications than the EF. We think that whenever possible, the use of IM devices for the treatment of open femur fracture in children should be considered, especially grade 1 open injuries. If EFs are used, avoiding varus malunion may decrease the refracture rate, and secondary change to an IM device should be considered.
Even though OTFC reduced early postoperative agitation the increase in side effects, namely PONV and prolonged recovery times, limits its clinical usefulness. The study demonstrates the tradeoffs between anxiety and agitation vs vomiting, respiratory events and prolonged recovery times. Ambulatory pediatric patients undergoing procedures in which opioids would be routinely used might benefit the most from OTFC combined with ondansetron as part of the anesthetic technique.
A higher dose of 1 mg.kg(-1) rectal midazolam results in much better sedated children on induction of anesthesia than 0.5 mg.kg(-1). This, however, does not result in a reduced incidence of emergence delirium after sevoflurane anesthesia. Regardless of the premedication negative behavioral changes occur more frequently in children younger than 3 years of age.
After midazolam premedication and intravenous induction of anaesthesia with thiopental administration of intravenous fentanyl 2.5 microg kg(-1) did not provide any clinically significant benefit on emer gence agitation in children who receive sevoflurane or desflurane anaesthesia.
Induction of and emergence from anesthesia was faster with sevoflurane than halothane. Airway complications were low in both groups. Vital signs were more stable with sevoflurane during induction through intubation, and were comparable during maintenance. Sevoflurane is an excellent drug for inhalational induction in pediatric patients.
Serum fentanyl concentrations after intranasal administration exceed the minimum effective steady state concentration for analgesia in adults. The use of intranasal fentanyl during halothane or sevoflurane anesthesia for BMT is associated with diminished postoperative agitation without an increase in vomiting, hypoxemia, or discharge times.
Although some studies have reported a high incidence of excitation following sevoflurane anaesthesia, we found no differences between halothane and sevoflurane. This finding could be due to the midazolam given as premedication as well as minimal postoperative pain in these children.
Children anesthetized with sevoflurane exhibit more immediate postoperative distress than those anesthetized with halothane. This difference is not carried over into the longer posthospital period. Negative behavioral changes occur more frequently with decreasing age.
This small study found that sevoflurane, at the doses used in this study, provided shorter induction and faster recovery times than i.v. propofol for LMA anesthesia in these selected children undergoing MRI. The percentage of MRI interruption in the propofol group was significantly higher than that in the sevoflurane group. Sevoflurane was associated with a significantly higher score on the PAED scale, indicating greater emergence delirium.
Sevoflurane compared favorably with halothane. Early recovery after sevoflurane was predictably more rapid than after halothane, although this was not reflected in a more rapid discharge from the hospital. The incidence of adverse events was similar for both anesthetics. Clinically, the induction, recovery, and safety characteristics of sevoflurane and halothane are similar. Sevoflurane is a suitable alternative to halothane for use in children undergoing minor ambulatory surgery.
In children 1-3 yr, sevoflurane provided more rapid early recovery but not discharge after anaesthesia of <30-min duration. Apart from more vomiting with halothane and more discomfort during the first 10 min after awakening with sevoflurane, the quality of recovery was similar with the two anaesthestics.
In this study, premedication with oral clonidine appeared to be superior to oral midazolam. Quality of mask acceptance was comparable between groups, but oral clonidine was better accepted by the child, produced more effective preoperative sedation, showed a trend towards better recovery from anesthesia and had a higher degree of parental satisfaction.
Repeated assessments of behaviour following anaesthetic recovery are required to define an incidence and duration of emergence agitation. Emergence agitation occurs most frequently in the initial 10 min of recovery, but many children who arrive asleep experience agitation later during recovery.
This study has demonstrated that general anesthesia with sevoflurane decreases the time to onset of surgical anesthesia relative to propofol anesthesia. This effect was most marked when sevoflurane anesthesia preceded caudal epidural blockade. The basis for this effect is most likely to be related to differential binding of the two anesthetic agents to receptors in the spinal cord that mediate immobility in response to surgical stimuli.
Sevoflurane with nitrous oxide provides satisfactory anesthetic induction and intubating conditions; however, induction using sevoflurane without nitrous oxide is associated with a high incidence of patient excitement and prolonged time to intubation. There were greater decreases in heart rate and systolic blood pressure during induction with halothane than with sevoflurane; however, these differences may be dose-related. The more rapid emergence with sevoflurane when compared with halothane is consistent with the low solubility of sevoflurane in blood and tissues. Children receiving sevoflurane for up to 9.6 MAC-hours did not develop high serum fluoride concentrations.
We found that the children having sevoflurane anaesthesia were more likely to develop behavioural problems postoperatively than with halothane. The rate of postoperative behavioural changes was not influenced by the type of surgery, the sedative premedication used, the induction technique or the use of opioids or nonopioid pain therapy.
Nonpharmacologic recommendations should be exhausted before adding therapy. Although anecdotal evidence encourages the use of metoclopramide, fenugreek, asparagus, and milk thistle for their galactogogue properties, efficacy and safety data in the literature are lacking. Oxytocin and domperidone are potentially available for compounding purposes, but safety data are limited. More studies are needed to evaluate the effects of available galactogogues on breast milk production.
Infants with ankyloglossia experiencing persistent breastfeeding difficulties showed less compression of the nipple by the tongue postfrenulotomy, which was associated with improved breastfeeding defined as better attachment, increased milk transfer, and less maternal pain. In the assessment of breastfeeding difficulties, ankyloglossia should be considered as a potential cause.
Delivery at extremely preterm gestational ages caused a significant delay in the onset of lactogenesis II. The volume of milk was reduced further when antenatal corticosteroids were administered between 28 and 34 weeks' gestation and delivery occurred 3 to 9 days later. In view of the advantages of mothers' own milk, additional support with lactation is recommended for mothers of preterm infants, particularly those who have been treated with corticosteroids before the delivery.
One-third of women with recent GDM experienced delayed OL. Maternal obesity, insulin treatment, and suboptimal in-hospital breastfeeding were key risk factors for delayed OL. Early breastfeeding support for GDM women with these risk factors may be needed to ensure successful lactation. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Results of this prospective study reveal that when mothers are well supported and follow the World Health Organization recommendation on breastfeeding, milk intakes are high and increase over time, and there is adequate energy intake, normal infant growth, and no marked changes in breastfeeding practices. This new empirical evidence on adaptations during exclusive breastfeeding should help health professionals promote the initiation, duration, and exclusivity of breastfeeding.
This study has enhanced our understanding of the perspectives and attitudes of breastfeeding women towards the use of herbal medicines, in particular galactagogues, while breastfeeding. The positive attitudes of breastfeeding women identified in this study highlight the need for further research into evaluating the safety and efficacy of commonly used herbal galactagogues, whilst the negative views on breastfeeding education should be taken into consideration when implementing or improving breastfeeding-related health policies.
These findings indicate that children receiving clonidine or DEX preoperatively have similar levels of anxiety and sedation postoperatively as those receiving midazolam. However, children given alpha(2)-agonists had less perioperative sympathetic stimulation and less postoperative pain than those given midazolam.
Intranasal clonidine administration has no advantage over the oral route. Clinical effects were similar with both routes; there was a trend towards a faster onset of sedation with oral clonidine. Clonidine premedication causes light sleep, which allows a steal-induction in 60% of patients.
Compared with midazolam, clonidine premedication reduced agitation during sevoflurane induction. During induction with sevoflurane 8% (oxygen 50%-nitrous oxide 50%), the nadir of the BIS occurred at the end of the second minute of inhalation. Agitation was associated with a more pronounced slowing of the EEG rhythms at BIS(nadir) compared with inductions in which no agitation was observed. The BIS may not follow the depth of anaesthesia during sevoflurane induction in children.
Oral clonidine premedication (4 micrograms.kg-1) blunted the increase in HR after intravenous atropine in awake children, although clonidine 2 micrograms.kg-1 did not. A larger dose of atropine was required to increase the HR by 20 beats.min-1 in children receiving the premedicant in the larger dose.
Epinephrine or isoproterenol is a reliable marker to detect accidental intravascular injection of a test dose with 100% sensitivity and specificity based on a new heart rate criterion in sevoflurane-anesthetized children. These data suggest that oral clonidine premedication does not alter the efficacy of a simulated epidural test dose containing epinephrine or isoproterenol.
Although several factors may justify its use as first line therapy in many parts of the world, morphine alone is not the most suitable analgesic for postoperative pain in pediatric patients, as it does not have superior analgesic effect and a higher incidence of side effects compared with active control interventions. More standardized clinical trials with multimodal regimens as well as guidelines for evaluating pediatric medicines are desirable in the future.
Oral clonidine premedication attenuated the hyperglycemic response, probably by inhibiting the surgical stress-induced release of catecholamines and cortisol. Infusion of 2% of glucose maintained plasma glucose concentrations within physiologic ranges in children receiving clonidine.
Photo/videorefraction can successfully screen infants for refractive errors, with visual outcomes improved through early refractive correction. Infant hyperopia is associated with mild delays across many aspects of visuocognitive and visuomotor development. These studies raise the possibility that infant refractive screening can identify not only visual problems, but also potential developmental and learning difficulties.
In contrast with normal infants, neither eye of those who had strabismus emmetropised, irrespective of whether the incoming vision was clear or blurred. It is suggested that these eyes did not "recognise" the signal of blurred vision, and that they remained long sighted because they were destined to squint. Hence, the children did not squint because they were long sighted, and glasses did not prevent them squinting.
A positive family history, subnormal random-dot stereopsis, and hypermetropic anisometropia each pose a significant risk for the development of accommodative esotropia. Assessment of these risk factors in conjunction with refractive screening should help to identify those children who are most likely to benefit from early spectacle correction or preventive treatment.
In this case series we found a high prevalence of amblyopia and strabismus. The results support the importance of early preschool vision screening and spectacle correction of moderate to high hypermetropia (>+3.50 D) to reduce the risk of amblyopia, although more research is needed.
Prematurity and maternal smoking during pregnancy are associated with a higher risk of having esotropia and exotropia. Refractive error is associated in a severity-dependent manner to the prevalence of esotropia and exotropia. Because refractive error is correctable, these risk associations should be considered when developing guidelines for the screening and management of refractive error in infants and young children.
Most children with refractive accommodative esotropia have an excellent outcome in terms of visual acuity and binocular single vision. Current management strategies for this condition result in a marked reduction in the prevalence of amblyopia compared with the prevalence at presentation. The degree of hyperopia, however, remains unchanged with poor prospects for discontinuing glasses wear. The possibility that long term full time glasses wear impedes emmetropisation must be considered. It is also conceivable, however, that these children may behave differently with normal and be predestined to remain hyperopic.
Consistent with many reports, astigmatism was common in early infancy but decreased in prevalence with age, particularly when with-the-rule in orientation. The reduction in percentage of infants with astigmatism appeared to be caused by decreases in the toricity of the cornea and the anterior lens combined with decreases in the variability of corneal and lenticular surfaces. Astigmatism in infancy appeared to be unrelated to emmetropization of spherical equivalent refractive error.
The level of cycloplegic refractive error was the best single factor for predicting emmetropization by 18 months of age, with smaller contributions from visual acuity and Mohindra retinoscopy. The lack of correlation between defocus and change in refractive error does not support a simple model of emmetropization in response to the level of hyperopic defocus. Infants were capable of maintaining accurate average levels of accommodation across a range of moderate hyperopic refractive errors at 3 months of age. The association between the change in refractive error and accommodative response suggests that accommodation is a plausible visual signal for emmetropization.
Most cases of SUDEP are preceded by seizures; their presence, frequency, type, aetiology, tractability, and the use of antiepileptic drugs are factors in the demise. No common risk factor, present in all cases of SUDEP, could be found, suggesting the probability of multiple mechanisms behind SUDEP.
Propofol is more effective than the morphine, atropine, and suxamethonium regimen as an induction agent to facilitate neonatal nasal endotracheal intubation. Importantly, hypoxemia was less severe, probably because of the maintenance of spontaneous breathing. A controlled environment may have promoted the ease of intubation, resulting in less trauma. The shorter duration of action would be advantageous in a compromised infant.
Prevention of post-intubation subglottic stenosis is possible through a better management of the EI and of the child with a tracheal tube. Sedation of intubated children and skill in the EI technique and in the tube size selection are very important. Many intubations can be avoided with a better attention to the tube fixation and to extubation criteria. Some children at high risk for this complication can be identified.
Premedication with atropine, fentanyl, and mivacurium compared with atropine and fentanyl without a muscle relaxant decreases the time and number of attempts needed to successfully intubate while significantly reducing the incidence of severe desaturation. Premedication including a short-acting muscle relaxant should be considered for all nonemergent intubations in the NICU.
Our study suggests that zafirlukast, as the first-line therapy, significantly reduces mild to moderate but not severe asthma exacerbations. In the add-on regimen, zafirlukast could not reduce asthma exacerbations, which would perhaps result from small sample size and needs to be further studied.
Pranlukast is a well tolerated and effective preventative treatment in adult and paediatric patients with persistent asthma of all severities. In some patients, pranlukast may be beneficial when added to low-dose inhaled corticosteroids; it may also be a viable alternative to increasing inhaled corticosteroid dosages. The efficacy of pranlukast relative to placebo has been confirmed; its efficacy relative to other therapy awaits further investigation. Nonetheless, pranlukast is a useful therapeutic option (with as-required short-acting beta(2)-agonists), either as preventative monotherapy for the treatment of mild persistent asthma or in conjunction with inhaled corticosteroids in the management of moderate or severe persistent asthma.
Study results at 2 months suggest that LTRA was equivalent to an inhaled glucocorticoid as first-line controller therapy and to LABA as add-on therapy for diverse primary care patients. Equivalence was not proved at 2 years. The interpretation of results of pragmatic research may be limited by the crossover between treatment groups and lack of a placebo group. (Funded by the National Coordinating Centre for Health Technology Assessment U.K. and others; Controlled Clinical Trials number, ISRCTN99132811.).
Zileuton represents the first drug of a new treatment category for asthma, the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors. Some people with asthma may receive considerable benefit, but as it is an entirely new drug entity, zileuton's final place in the hierarchy of asthma medications remains to be determined.
Early adjunctive treatment with corticosteroids reduces the risks of respiratory failure and death in patients with AIDS and moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia. Because the adverse effects are few, corticosteroids should be included as part of the initial treatment for persons with AIDS who have moderate-to-severe pneumocystis pneumonia.
Our data show that, as in industrialized countries, most HIV-infected individuals admitted to and dying in hospital in Abidjan are profoundly immunosuppressed. Potentially preventable infections are the main causes of in-hospital morbidity and mortality among HIV-infected persons in Abidjan, and the evaluation of appropriate primary prophylactic regimes is a priority.
For most patients with AIDS and P. carinii pneumonia, successful treatment with a single agent is possible. Toxicity associated with the two standard treatments is rarely life-threatening and may be diminished if the trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole dosage is modified by pharmacokinetic monitoring and the pentamidine dosage is reduced for nephrotoxicity. Oxygenation improved more quickly and survival was better with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
Based on the literature reviewed, early systemic adjuvant corticosteroid therapy can benefit patients with moderate-to-severe AIDS-related PCP. The steroid regimen used in the largest controlled trial and recommended by the expert panel is prednisone 40 mg bid (days 1-5), then 40 mg/d (days 6-10), then 20 mg/d (days 1-21).
A strategy of intensive glucose control, involving gliclazide (modified release) and other drugs as required, that lowered the glycated hemoglobin value to 6.5% yielded a 10% relative reduction in the combined outcome of major macrovascular and microvascular events, primarily as a consequence of a 21% relative reduction in nephropathy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Despite an early loss of glycemic differences, a continued reduction in microvascular risk and emergent risk reductions for myocardial infarction and death from any cause were observed during 10 years of post-trial follow-up. A continued benefit after metformin therapy was evident among overweight patients. (UKPDS 80; Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN75451837.)
Patients undergoing hemodialysis may become hypoglycemic and not be aware of it. There is no hormonal imbalance causing the hypoglycemia and the hormonal response to the hypoglycemia is blunted. Patients with an initial plasma glucose of 5.5 mmol/l (100 mg/dl) or less who are hemodialyzed and who do not eat during dialysis may be particularly at risk, especially if they are on insulin or taking glucose-lowering medication. These should be dialyzed with a dialysis fluid containing at least 5.5 mmol/l (100 mg/dl) glucose.
Intensive glycemic control retards microalbuminuria in patients who have had type 2 diabetes for several years but may not lessen the progressive deterioration of glomerular function. Increases in macrovascular event rates in the subgroup entering without albuminuria who received INT remain unexplained but could reflect early worsening, as observed with microvascular disease in the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial.
Higher casual glucose and HbA(1c) levels were not associated with mortality in maintenance hemodialysis patients with or without diabetes. This may have implications for recommended glycemic targets, quality indicators, and how best to assess glycemic control in this high-risk population.
A hemoglobin A(1c) level higher than 9% is common in people with non-hemodialysis-dependent CKD and is associated with markedly worse clinical outcomes; lower levels of HbA(1c) (<6.5%) also seemed to be associated with excess mortality. The excess risk of kidney failure associated with a higher HbA(1c) level was most pronounced among people with better kidney function. These findings suggest that appropriate and timely control of HbA(1c) level in people with DM and CKD may be more important than previously realized, but suggest also that intensive glycemic control (HbA(1c) level <6.5%) may be associated with increased mortality.
We conclude that poor glycaemic control before starting dialysis is a strong predictor of cardiovascular morbidity and survival for type II diabetics on haemodialysis. These results imply that better glycaemic control before dialysis might be important in improving the long-term prognosis in type II diabetics on haemodialysis.
The use of etomidate for RSI in trauma patients led to chemical evidence of adrenocortical insufficiency and may have contributed to increased hospital and ICU lengths of stay and increased ventilator days. Further studies should be considered to evaluate the safety profile of this drug in trauma patients.
Among the patients enrolled in the study, etomidate did not alter basal cortisolemia, but it did decrease reactivity to corticotropin. We suggest that in trauma patients, etomidate is an independent risk factor for HAP and that the administration of hydrocortisone should be considered after etomidate use.
In this group of septic cirrhotic patients with very high mortality, etomidate increased ICU mortality. Subsequent use of hydrocortisone appears to have no benefit beyond decreasing vasopressor requirements. The lowest mortality was observed in patients who did not receive etomidate but received hydrocortisone.
The use of bolus dose etomidate in the 72 h before study inclusion is associated with an increased incidence of inadequate response to corticotropin, but is also likely to be associated with an increase in mortality. We recommend clinicians demonstrate extreme caution in the use of etomidate in critically ill patients with septic shock.
A single bolus infusion of etomidate resulted in wide adrenal inhibition in critically ill patients. However, this alteration was reversible by 48 h following the drug administration. The empirical use of steroid supplementation for 48 h following a single dose of etomidate in ICU patients without septic shock should thus be considered. Concomitant serum cortisol and 11beta-deoxycortisol dosages are needed to provide evidence for adrenal insufficiency induced by etomidate in critically ill patients.
Etomidate appears to provide appropriate intubating conditions in a heterogeneous group of patients undergoing RSI in the emergency department. Hemodynamic stability appears to be present following administration of this agent, even in patients with low pre-RSI blood pressure. This attribute must be weighed against potential adverse effects of this agent, including adrenal suppression.
Current evidence provides no support for the use of corticosteroids in patients with sepsis or septic shock, and suggests that their use may be harmful. These trials underscore the need for future methodologically rigorous trials evaluating new immune-modulating therapies in well-defined critically ill patients with overwhelming infection.
Thiopental, methohexital, and propofol appear to facilitate RSI in emergency department patients, independent of patient characteristics or intubator training. A deeper plane of anesthesia may improve intubating conditions in emergency patients undergoing RSI by complementing incomplete muscle paralysis.
The intervention was effective in improving anger control by people with intellectual disabilities. It provides evidence of the effectiveness of a CBT intervention for this client group and demonstrates that the staff who work with them can be trained and supervised to deliver such an intervention with reasonable fidelity.
Although the study had limitations because of the short follow-up period and the non-random selection of participants, the statistically significant differences between the SFBT and CAU groups and the medium to large effect sizes, indicate the potential effectiveness of SFBT for people with MID.
A reduction in provocation inventory scores immediately after the group was more likely to occur if the participant was accompanied by a member of staff who knew them and if they had a higher score on the test of receptive vocabulary. This pattern changed with time. The implications of the results will be discussed and the relatively large amount of variance that is not accounted for will also be considered.
Aggressive behaviour is common among adults with ID, but contrary to previous suggestions, more than a quarter remit within the short to medium term. This is important knowledge for professionals as well as the person and her/his family and paid carers. There is much yet to learn about the mechanisms underpinning aetiology and maintenance of aggressive behaviour in this population, and exploratory epidemiological investigations such as this have a role to play in progressing research towards further hypothesis testing and trials to influence clinical practice, service development and policy.
The capacity to document and assess the types as well as the severity of aggressive behaviour is thus critical, not only to better understand the correlates of various types of behaviours but also to orient intervention programmes whether they be prevention, assessment, monitoring or management of aggressive behaviour.
Meta-analysis characteristics were strongly associated with the degree of between-study heterogeneity, and predictive distributions for heterogeneity differed substantially across settings. The informative priors provided will be very beneficial in future meta-analyses including few studies.
We recommend moderation in the consumption of coffee in pregnancy, since intrauterine growth retardation increases the risk of perinatal and neonatal morbidity and mortality. Further large prospective studies evaluating the content of caffeine in the coffee consumed by this population is advised.
The two treatment methods initially had equal success rates, but in the long term the effect of the botulinum toxin injection was statistically significantly shorter than that of balloon dilation. As fewer risks are associated with the injection treatment, studies should be undertaken either to identify patient subgroups in whom botulinum toxin can be effective long-term or to test substances with longer-lasting effects.
BTX injection, which can be performed in an outpatient setting, is as safe and cost-effective as balloon dilation in symptomatic achalasia. Taking into account the lower long-term efficacy of BTX injection therapy, however, it is an alternative only in a minority of older or high-risk patients.
For otherwise healthy patients with achalasia, initial PD is the least costly strategy provided that the PD perforation rate remains < 10%. Initial Botox is less costly only when nonendoscopic-related costs decrease by 25%. Initial LHM is the most costly strategy under all clinically plausible scenarios. Subsequent analyses should include a longer time horizon and an assessment of patient ference for each strategy.
We found that 77% of patients with classical achalasia experienced a good symptomatic response after Botulinum toxin and 30% of initial responders achieve sustained symptomatic relief after a single treatment with Botulinum toxin. The initial responders who relapsed did well with subsequent Botulinum toxin A. Lack of an initial symptomatic response and residual lower esophageal sphincter pressure > or =18 mm Hg after Botulinum toxin are associated with a poor response.
Prophylactic use of a vancomycin-heparin lock solution markedly reduced the incidence of CRBSI in high-risk neonates with long-term central catheters and did not promote vancomycin resistance but was associated with asymptomatic hypoglycemia. The use of an anti-infective lock solution for prevention of CRBSI with long-term intravascular devices has achieved proof of principle and warrants selective application in clinical practice.
CVC use increased the risk of nosocomial blood stream infection. The risk of nosocomial blood stream infection in percutaneous and Broviac catheters was 70 to 80% higher than in umbilical venous catheters. There was significant variation in CVC-related infection risks among Canadian NICUs.
There was a 20% reduction in the incidence of late-onset infection after the intervention, but the magnitude was less than hypothesized, perhaps because compliance with components of evidence-based care of indwelling catheters remained <90%. Because nearly one-third of infections were not catheter associated, improvement may require attention to other aspects of care such as skin integrity and nutrition.
The use of ALS reduces by about a factor 3 the risk of CRB in haemodialysis patients. The achieved absolute incidence is similar to the best-published figures (presumably related to stricter hygienic measures). The limited follow-up of the studies does not exclude the onset of adverse events or bacterial resistance with longer use of ALS.
In contrast with adult ICU care, maximizing insertion-bundle compliance alone cannot help PICUs to eliminate CA-BSIs. The main drivers for additional reductions in pediatric CA-BSI rates are issues that surround daily maintenance care for central lines, as defined in our maintenance bundle. Additional research is needed to define the optimal maintenance bundle that will facilitate elimination of CA-BSIs for children.
Antibiotic catheter lock solutions reduce catheter-related bloodstream infections, with a number needed to treat of 4 patients (95% CI, 4-5), and catheter removal rates in patients undergoing hemodialysis. The use of antibiotic catheter lock solutions should be considered in routine clinical practice in conjunction with other prevention modalities.
Frequent use of alcohol, nicotine or cannabis in young people seeking mental healthcare is common. Given the restricted legal access, the patterns of use in those aged 12-17 years are particularly notable. Reductions in substance use needs to be prioritised within services for at-risk young people.
A prospective relationship was found between exposure to smoking in movies and smoking initiation. Among black adolescents in the U.S., this was only for black-oriented movies, suggesting the importance of personal relevance of the exposures. Parents, practitioners, and producers should be aware of these potential influences of media on black teen viewers.
Based on estimates from four continents, smoking cigarettes causes a 75% increase in the risk of pancreatic cancer compared to non-smokers, and the risk persists for a minimum of 10 years after smoking cessation. This implies that in a population where the prevalence of smoking is 30%, the population's attributable risk (the proportion of pancreatic cancer explained by smoking) is estimated to be 20%.
Seeing smoking in movies is a predictor of smoking onset in various cultural contexts. The results confirm that limiting young people's exposure to movie smoking might be an effective way to decrease adolescent smoking onset.
SHS exposure has many detrimental effects on children's health, particularly for those in low socioeconomic circumstances, for which factors in the built environment accentuated a higher baseline risk. By counseling parents, expanding residency education, and continuing advocacy work, pediatricians can have a significant positive impact on children's health as related to SHS exposure.
--Some C pneumoniae antibody titers, although not diagnostic of chlamydial infection by present criteria, probably represent acute reinfection or ongoing chronic infection. Repeated or prolonged exposure to C pneumoniae may have a causal association with wheezing, asthmatic bronchitis, and asthma.
The inhalation of a selective beta 2-adrenergic bronchodilator, terbutaline, effectively inhibited fentanyl-induced cough, whereas atropine, an antimuscarinic vagolytic, had no efficacy. Our results suggest that bronchoconstriction may underlie the mechanism on fentanyl-induced cough.
Although evidence suggests that antibiotic treatment is not usually indicated for treatment of acute bronchitis, these results indicate that antibiotics are still the predominant treatment regimen in ambulatory care. Furthermore, the evidence suggesting that bronchodilators are effective symptomatic treatments has not been widely adopted. These results have significant implications for the production of antibiotic-resistant bacteria and suggest investigation into why physicians have not used this information in their treatment of acute bronchitis.
Variations in the diagnosis of acute bronchitis in otherwise healthy adults can be attributed to physician age, treatment choice, and practice setting. A significant number of family physicians did not require a productive cough as part of the diagnostic criteria for acute bronchitis. This finding needs to be considered in studies evaluating treatment. Additional qualitative studies are necessary to identify other factors involved in diagnosing acute bronchitis.
Family physicians report that antibiotics are their most common treatment for acute bronchitis in the otherwise healthy adult. Previous clinical trials have shown only marginal improvement in symptoms when patients with this condition are treated with an antibiotic. With antibiotic resistance emerging as a major global health problem, it is essential that other methods of treatment be evaluated.
Computed tomography should be used with caution for triage of nondisplaced scaphoid fractures because false-positive results occur, perhaps from misinterpretation of vascular foraminae or other normal lines in the scaphoid. Given the relative infrequency of true fractures among patients with suspected scaphoid fractures, CT is better for ruling out a fracture than for ruling one in.
Magnetic resonance imaging is an accurate means of diagnosing tears of the triangular fibrocartilage and carpal osteonecrosis. Although MRI is highly specific for tears of the intrinsic carpal ligaments, its sensitivity is low. The diagnostic performance of MRI in the wrist is improved by using high-resolution T2* weighted 3D gradient echo sequences. Using current imaging techniques without intra-articular contrast medium, magnetic resonance imaging cannot reliably exclude tears of the intrinsic carpal ligaments. Hobby, J. L. (2001). Clinical Radiology, 56, 50-57.
The survey revealed a wide variation in the management of occult fractures of the scaphoid. MRI has been shown to be both sensitive and specific in diagnosing occult carpal bone fractures. There is a need to standardise the management of these injuries to ensure early diagnosis and limit unnecessary wrist immobilisation.
The upper incidence of overall complications associated with the TAP block in children was 0.3%. More important, complications were very minor and did not require any additional interventions. In contrast, the large variability of local anesthetic dosage used can not only minimize potential analgesic benefits of the TAP block but also result in local anesthetic toxicity. Safety concerns should not be a major barrier to performing randomized trials to test the efficacy of the TAP block in children as long as appropriate local anesthetic dose regimens are selected.
Regional anesthesia in children as commonly performed in the United States has a very low rate of complications, comparable to that seen in the large multicenter European studies. Ultrasound may be increasing the use of peripheral nerve blocks. Multicenter collaborative networks such as the Pediatric Regional Anesthesia Network can facilitate the collection of detailed prospective data for research and quality improvement.
The placement of regional anesthetic blocks in pediatric patients under GA is as safe as placement in sedated and awake children. Our results provide the first prospective evidence for the pediatric anesthesia community that the practice of placing blocks in anesthetized patients should be considered safe and should remain the prevailing standard of care. Prohibitive recommendations based on anecdote and case reports cannot be supported.
This study found that although a significant number of children receiving PCA and PCA-P experienced adverse events, there was no difference in the prevalence between groups. The PCA-P group was at greater risk for events requiring rescue interventions, perhaps due to the prevalence of underlying comorbidities. These findings emphasize the need for vigilant monitoring to facilitate early recognition and timely intervention of respiratory depression.
The prevalence of dental fluorosis can be attributed to the level of fluoride in the drinking water as it exhibited a step-wise increase when the water fluoride levels increased from 1.5-1.7 ppm. Measures for defluoridation of drinking water before distribution has to be taken in the high prevalence blocks to lower the burden of dental fluorosis in this community.
These findings indicate that fluorosis is an important concern in non-fluoridated areas. Fluoride supplements should not be recommended unless an independent home water test is performed. Breast-feeding for 6 months or more may protect children from developing dental fluorosis in the permanent incisors.
Developmental enamel defects may be useful markers of caries susceptibility, which should be considered in the risk-benefit assessment for use of fluoride. Further studies are required to clarify the relationship between developmental enamel opacities and dental caries and the reasons for any associations.
The prevalence of fluorosis was associated with the water fluoride concentration. Fluorosis at moderate and severe levels was associated with a higher prevalence of dental caries, compared with lesser degrees of fluorosis. The impact of dental fluorosis should be considered in dental public health programs.
Reticulated water fluoridation in Auckland reduces the risk of dental caries but increases the risk of diffuse opacities in 9-year-old children. Guidelines and health-promotion strategies that enable children to minimize their risk to diffuse opacities yet reduce their risk of dental caries should be reviewed.
This study suggests that the prevalence of diffuse opacities among children who have lived their whole lives in a fluoridated area has not increased. The benefits of water fluoridation as a public health measure remain, with children continuously exposed to fluoridated water during their life having half the dental caries experience of those who have not. While this benefit also exacts a "biological price" in terms of a greater prevalence of diffuse opacities, the clinical, social and public health significanceof those opacities remains unclear.
The important factor in relation to fluorosis of esthetic concern was explained by exposure to fluoridated water in infancy, and was not explained by age, sex, level of parental education or early childhood oral health behaviors. However, prevalence of this condition was relatively low. These findings should inform policies on appropriate total fluoride exposure levels during infancy.
Our results suggest a complicated pattern of disease following cessation of fluoridation. Multiple sources of fluoride besides water fluoridation have made it more difficult to detect changes in the epidemiological profile of a population with generally low caries experience, and living in an affluent setting with widely accessible dental services. There are, however, subtle differences in caries and caries treatment experience between children living in fluoridated and fluoridation-ended areas.
This study supports the potential use of fluorescence imaging for the objective quantification of dental fluorosis. Fluorescence imaging was able to discriminate between populations with different fluoride exposures on a comparable level to remote photographic scoring with acceptable levels of repeatability.
The ingestion of naturally fluoridated water (1.3 mg F/l) seemed to have a negligible effect on caries prevalence, but resulted in higher prevalence of dental fluorosis. It is emphasized that the study population was not adjusted for socioeconomic status, availability of dental care nor for exposures to other sources of fluoride. Nevertheless, it can be concluded that caries prevalence in Iran is quite low compared with that in other countries in the Middle East and that the elevated fluoride levels in the drinking water in Semnan may contribute to the development of mild to severe fluorosis.
At least 8 out of 10 adolescents had some level of fluorosis, and such prevalence is considered to be a dental public health problem. A relationship between fluoride concentration in water in each community and fluorosis was observed. The high fluorosis prevalence and severity might possibly be associated with the high altitude of the communities.
Fluorosis prevalence seems to have fallen in parallel with a reduction in discretionary intake from supplements and toothpaste. No increase in dental caries experience was recorded. Because the teeth examined in this study were at risk of fluorosis in 1992-95, very soon after policies changed, and because people are slow to change health habits, it seems reasonable to expect a further improvement when teeth mineralised in the late 1990s become visible.
Defluoridation of drinking water, or--alternatively--the provision of low-fluoride water sources, should be given high priority in the examined Shaanxi rural areas. Fluoride concentration of drinking water should be maximum 0.6 mg/l. Storage of water in the local clay pots may increase the severity of dental fluorosis.
The results suggest that: (1) in the optimally fluoridated community, the apparent increase in the prevalence of dental fluorosis observed from 1980 to 1985 did not continue from 1985 to 1990; and (2) at above-optimal water fluoride concentrations, dental fluorosis either remained stable or demonstrated no sustained increase over the decade.
Findings from the present study suggest that water fluoridation still is beneficial and that dental sealants can play a significant role in preventing dental caries. In addition, findings from this survey appear to support the premise that the difference in dental fluorosis prevalence between fluoridated and nonfluoridated communities has narrowed considerably in recent years.
The provision of fluoride-safe drinking-water supply schemes had significant effects on the prevention and control of dental fluorosis and skeletal fluorosis. The study also indicated that the dental and skeletal fluorosis is still prevailing in the high-fluoride drinking-water areas in China.
The results of this study show that primary tooth fluorosis is relatively uncommon, but is most frequently seen on the posterior teeth, particularly the primary second molars, which form at later stages of development. This finding suggests that primary tooth fluorosis is mostly a postnatal phenomenon, and is associated with higher water fluoride levels.
Caries levels are lower among children with fluoridated domestic water supplies. Decay levels are much lower in 2002 than they were in 1984 and in the 1960s. The oral health of the less well off is worse than that of the rest of the population. The prevalence of dental fluorosis is higher amongst children and adolescents with fluoridated water supplies. Comparisons with 1984 data show an increase in the prevalence of fluorosis since that time.
In 2002 apart from 8-year-olds, caries levels were lower amongst children resident in fluoridated communities in RoI than amongst corresponding age groups in non-fluoridated NI. Caries has declined in fluoridated and non fluoridated groups in both jurisdictions since the early 1960s. In RoI fluorosis levels were higher amongst lifetime residents of fluoridated communities and have increased since 1984.
Dental caries was associated with Jarman underprivileged area scores. The differential efficacy of fluoridation to deprived areas was demonstrated at electoral ward level. Water fluoridation was confirmed as an evidence based intervention which has halved the amount of tooth decay in 5- and 12-year-old children.
There are no gold standards for setting up a universal optimal level of fluoride in drinking water and each country needs to determine the concentration of fluoride in their drinking water in accordance with its socio-economic and climatic conditions, dietary and oral hygiene habits of its population, and local research to determine how much fluoride is beneficial in the control of caries.
The study confirmed previous findings of an inverse relation between fluoride concentration in the drinking water and dental caries in children. This correlation was found in spite of the extensive use of fluoridated toothpaste and caries-preventive programs implemented by the municipal dental services in Denmark. Linking Danish health registers with environmental and administrative registers offers an opportunity for obtaining sample sizes large enough to identify health effect, which otherwise could not be identified.
The evidence from this study confirmed that water fluoridation has reduced the gap in dental caries experience between medium and lower social classes in Dublin compared with the greater difference in caries experience between the equivalent social classes in Freiburg. The results from this study established the important role of salt fluoridation where water fluoridation is not feasible.
The results demonstrate that water fluoridation is effective at preventing dental disease after controlling for confounding factors. In both populations the majority of disease was not confined to a small number of deprived area types. This undermines the contention that a targeted approach to caries prevention is a practical option.
The prevalence and severity of diffuse opacities among maxillary incisor teeth of Hong Kong children decreased from 1983 and then increased in 2010; however, this change did not fully correspond to the concentration of fluoride in the drinking water during the time of enamel development.
There is evidence that the age at which tooth brushing with fluoride toothpastes is commenced and the amount of fluoride placed on the brush are important risk factors in the incidence of dental fluorosis. It is recommended that brushing should not commence until the age of 2 and that a pea-sized amount (0.25 g) of toothpaste should be placed on the brush.
Fewer studies have been published recently. More of these have investigated effect at the multi-community, state or even national level. The dmf/DMF index remains the most widely used measure of effect. % CR were lower in recent studies, and the 'halo' effect was discussed frequently. Nevertheless, reductions were still substantial. Statistical control for confounding factors is now routine, although the effect on per cent reductions tended to be small. Further thought is needed about the purpose of evaluation and whether measures of effect and study design are appropriate for that purpose.
Highly industrially processed foods dominate diets and nutrient patterns in Nordic and central European countries. The greater variations observed within southern countries may reflect both a larger contribution of non/moderately processed staple foods along with a move from traditional to more industrialized dietary patterns.
There was no support for the therapeutic use of tamoxifen in advanced HCC, nor for its use as a control arm in future clinical trials.
ZD9331, in combination with topotecan, showed manageable toxicity and some evidence of activity in patients with ovarian cancer.
This daily-times-3-day schedule of topotecan in combination with carboplatin is safe.
Chemotherapy with topotecan and ifosfamide (IT) in pretreated advanced ovarian cancer patients is feasible with moderate toxicity. The potential of the regimen for synergistic drug interactions deserves further evaluations.
When employed at this dose and schedule (24-h infusion every 3 weeks), topotecan has minimal second-line activity in platinum-refractory ovarian cancer.
Treatment with this sequential doublet regimen is feasible with a 38% pathologic CR rate.
A 3-day regimen of topotecan at a dose of 2.0 mg/m(2) per day was generally well tolerated, although the response rate was lower than that for the standard 5-day schedule.
Topotecan at a dose of 2.8 mg/m(2) and paclitaxel at a dose of 100 mg/m(2) administered by concurrent, 96-hour, continuous intravenous infusions shows activity against tumors of Müllerian origin.
Topotecan combined with gemcitabine has a favourable toxicity profile and encouraging efficacy in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer.
The combination of i.p. topotecan and oral etoposide is an active and well-tolerated regimen in platinum-resistant ovarian carcinoma. Additional studies investigating topotecan in combination with etoposide are warranted.
Topotecan combined with paclitaxel administered once weekly for three consecutive weeks repeated for every 28 days resulted in well-tolerated toxicity at doses of 1.75 and 70 mg/m2, respectively, and a response rate of 33% in pretreated cancer patients.
Topotecan exhibits activity in patients with ovarian cancer resistant to both platinum and paclitaxel. Further study is warranted in less heavily pretreated patients and in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents.
Transfusions are not uncommon in Swedish palliative care. A majority seemed to benefit from the transfusions. Since they are expensive and time consuming, the effect should, however, be carefully evaluated in every individual in order to avoid ineffective treatment.
Anemia defined by the WHO criteria was associated with an increased mortality risk in persons aged 85 years and older. The criteria are thus appropriate for older persons. A low hemoglobin concentration at old age signifies disease.
Severe fatigue is a common problem among cancer patients, particularly those with advanced disease. Fatigue is significantly associated with the severity of psychological symptoms (anxiety and depression) and with the severity of pain and dyspnoea.
Lapatinib plus capecitabine is superior to capecitabine alone in women with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer that has progressed after treatment with regimens that included an anthracycline, a taxane, and trastuzumab. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
p95HER-2 expression is an independent prognostic factor in breast cancer and defines a group of patients with HER-2-positive breast cancer with significantly worse outcome.
Postmenopausal women have significantly elevated risks for falls and fractures after a cancer diagnosis. The causes for this increased risk remained to be investigated.
The taxonomy is a useful instrument for characterizing a broad range of interventions used in falls prevention. Investigators are encouraged to use the taxonomy to report their interventions.
Although both regimens led to a pain remission, side effects are too severe to recommend these protocols for standard treatment of hormone-resistant prostate cancer.
The improvement in median survival of nearly two months with docetaxel and estramustine, as compared with mitoxantrone and prednisone, provides support for this approach in men with metastatic, androgen-independent prostate cancer.
It was concluded that there was no survival advantage to CAM over CTX alone. New chemotherapeutic agents with greater activity against prostatic cancer must be identified.
When given with prednisone, treatment with docetaxel every three weeks led to superior survival and improved rates of response in terms of pain, serum PSA level, and quality of life, as compared with mitoxantrone plus prednisone.
The pattern of results suggests that the lowest dose of suramin administered had a palliative effect in terms of improvement in QOL and decreased levels of depression and that this effect was lost once suramin was discontinued.
Mitomycin C has no beneficial effect when used in conjunction to orchiectomy in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic prostate cancer.
In HRPC, treatment with stilboestrol is associated with a greater PSA fall and an increase in median survival when compared to flutamide treatment.
More patients taking prednisolone described better pain relief, although both medications were well tolerated and there was no difference in terms of performance status or analgesic requirements.
MA has limited activity in hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma, and there is no apparent dose-response correlation.
Based on the results of this randomized phase III study orchiectomy plus mitomycin C for metastatic prostate cancer in patients with poor prognostic factors cannot be recommended due to failure of improvement in survival and reduced quality of life parameters.
our study suggests that the use of ellagic acid as support therapy reduces chemotherapy induced toxicity, in particular neutropenia, in HRCP patients; however, further studies are required to confirm our results.
Our results indicate that future studies of hormono/chemotherapy should focus on younger patients with bone metastases.
We conclude that chemohormonal therapy does not definitely improve the clinical response and prognosis of patients with stage D prostatic cancer; however, for patients with poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma, chemohormonal therapy is a useful treatment.
US is significantly better than mammography for detecting invasive breast cancer (92% patients). The combination of US and mammography is significantly better than either modality used alone, together resulting in 9% more breast cancers detected.
Adding a single screening ultrasound to mammography will yield an additional 1.1 to 7.2 cancers per 1000 high-risk women, but it will also substantially increase the number of false positives.
The use of high-resolution USG may lead to detection of a significant number of occult cancers that are no different in size from nonpalpable mammographically detected lesions.
The systematic application of breast US improved the overall diagnostic yield. The diagnostic value increased most in patients with palpable breast lumps and in patients referred with abnormal screening MAM results.
Combined screening with mammography and ultrasonography may be feasible. A larger study is required to evaluate relative performance of mammography and ultrasonography in detail by characteristics of examinees and their breasts.
The differentiating criteria from automatic sonography and mammography can, in principle, be used to evaluate the dignity of breast lesions. However, an optimization is necessary since the improvement in specificity does not compensate the loss in sensitivity.
Extensive mammographic density is strongly associated with the risk of breast cancer detected by screening or between screening tests. A substantial fraction of breast cancers can be attributed to this risk factor.
In the community, mammography remains the main screening tool while the effectiveness of clinical breast examination and self-examination are less. New screening modalities are unlikely to replace mammography in the near future for screening the general population.
Our study showed a positive effect of adjuvant chemotherapy and immunotherapy on decreasing tumor recurrence rate. No influence was observed concerning progression rate, which was low overall.
In multiple recurrent pTa or pT1 bladder tumours clearing the bladder of all except one marker tumour provides a safe and convenient way of measuring the response to intravesical therapy. No significant difference in efficacy or toxicity was detected between Evans BCG and Pasteur BCG.
Age, sex, and ultralow anterior resection were found to be risk factors for anastomotic leakage after rectal cancer surgery. In addition, leakage was associated with poor survival.
Thoracic anastomotic leaks are largely preventable. Leak-related mortality for the series was 1% and was most commonly related to inadequate drainage.
Symptoms of delirium in medically hospitalized AIDS patients may be treated efficaciously with few side effects by using low-dose neuroleptics (haloperidol or chlorpromazine). Lorazepam alone appears to be ineffective and associated with treatment-limiting adverse effects.
The CAM is sensitive, specific, reliable, and easy to use for identification of delirium.
5,6-benzo-alpha-pyrone reduces the oedema and many symptoms of filarial lymphoedema and elephantiasis. It has few side effects, and its relatively slow action makes it ideal for use without compression garments.
5,6-Benzo-[alpha]-pyrone results in slow but safe reduction of lymphedema of the extremities.
Multilayer bandaging as an initial phase of treatment for lymphedema patients, followed by hosiery, achieves greater and more sustained limb volume reduction than hosiery alone.
Patients with arm swelling in relation to breast cancer experienced functional impairment, psychosocial maladjustment, and increased psychological morbidity. These findings have implications for management of breast cancer.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy seems to improve long-term survival after cystectomy in patients with stages T3 to T4a bladder carcinoma, while no survival benefit was found for stages T1 to T2 disease.
The results related to fruit and vegetable intake are consistent with an anti-nitrosating effect of these foods, while the unexpected association between coffee consumption and gastric cancer is difficult to explain and may represent a chance finding.
Our findings did not suggest a prominent inverse association of green tea consumption with oral cancer, although there was a tendency for a reduced risk in women.
The results suggest the potential for protective effect against site-specific digestive tract cancer by consumption of green tea and coffee, although most associations are limited only to the upper category of intake and have no clear explanation for site-specificity.
Among the variables studied, smoking has the largest public health impact on esophageal cancer incidence in Japanese men, followed by alcohol drinking and green tea drinking.
Our findings provide further evidence that cigarette smoking and, possibly, alcohol consumption increase the risk of stomach carcinoma, notably of the distal segment. An inverse association with green tea drinking was also observed.
Our findings do not support the hypothesis that green tea consumption is associated with decreased risk of pancreatic cancer in humans.
An inverse association between green tea consumption and distal gastric cancer was observed among women. More prospective studies with detailed information are needed to confirm the role of green tea in the occurrence of gastric cancer.
Consumption of green tea was not associated with lower risk of colorectal cancer.
In a population-based, prospective cohort study in Japan, we found no association between green-tea consumption and the risk of gastric cancer.
Those with an increased risk of bladder cancer, such as smokers, may benefit from increasing their consumption of green-yellow vegetables.
Green tea carries limited antineoplastic activity, as defined by a decline in PSA levels, among patients with androgen independent prostate carcinoma.
This study suggests an inverse association between colon cancer risk and habitual tea consumption.
Electroacupuncture was an effective treatment for relieving pancreatic cancer pain.
It appears feasible to conduct a randomized sham-controlled acupuncture trial measuring QoL for patients with ovarian cancer who are undergoing chemotherapy. Acupuncture may have a role in improving QoL during chemotherapy.
The symptomatic improvement was at levels comparable with that from pharmacotherapy, and cost analysis showed AA to be a viable alternative. Larger randomized studies are needed to fully evaluate AA against more conventional treatments, and these are planned.
The notion that acupuncture may be an effective analgesic adjunctive method for cancer patients is not supported by the data currently available from the majority of rigorous clinical trials. Because of its widespread acceptance, appropriately powered RCTs are needed.
Acupuncture effectively relieves chronic low back pain. No evidence suggests that acupuncture is more effective than other active therapies.
Sham-controlled trials show clinically irrelevant short-term benefits of acupuncture for treating knee osteoarthritis. Waiting list-controlled trials suggest clinically relevant benefits, some of which may be due to placebo or expectation effects.
These data demonstrate the ubiquitous activation of Ras and Jak/Stat pathways in HCC and suggest the potential use of Ras and Jak/Stat inhibitors and demethylating agents as therapeutic modality for human liver cancer.
In patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, median survival and the time to radiologic progression were nearly 3 months longer for patients treated with sorafenib than for those given placebo. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Iron deposition in the liver was more frequent in patients with NASH-related cirrhosis with HCC than in HCC-free controls. Liver iron overload may be associated with development of HCC in patients with NASH-related cirrhosis.
In CLD patients, AFP monitoring misses many HCCs and inappropriately arouses suspicion of malignancy in many patients. Its usefulness is barely affected by the infection responsible for CLD. An AFP elevation could be more indicative of HCC in non-infected patients.
Adjuvant therapy improved survival for women with stage II-IV disease. Survival of black and white patients who received comparable treatment was similar.
The improved outcome in patients who received postoperative sequential treatment seems to indicate that further exploration of this treatment modality is justified.
Weekly OXA, at doses potentially active systemically, can be combined with full-dose, infused FUra and radiotherapy. Given the low toxicity and promising activity, this regimen is being compared to standard FUra-based pelvic chemoradiation in a randomised study.
CAP-OX-RT as preoperative treatment for rectal cancer induces a remarkable rate of complete or near-complete pathologically documented response and is well tolerated.
Combination of preoperative radiotherapy with capecitabine and oxaliplatin is feasible for downstaging rectal cancer.
CPR after CMT for rectal cancer is associated with improved local and distal control as well as better OS and DFS.
Itraconazole was as effective as fluconazole in nosocomial candidiasis in children receiving intensive care and was devoid of serious side effects.
Micafungin seems to be similarly effective and as safe as liposomal amphotericin B for the treatment of invasive candidiasis in pediatric patients. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Liposomal amphotericin B is as effective as conventional amphotericin B for empirical antifungal therapy in patients with fever and neutropenia, and it is associated with fewer breakthrough fungal infections, less infusion-related toxicity, and less nephrotoxicity.
Neither fluconazole nor itraconazole showed statistically superior efficacy in nonmeningeal coccidioidomycosis, although there is a trend toward slightly greater efficacy with itraconazole at the doses studied.
In patients with invasive aspergillosis, initial therapy with voriconazole led to better responses and improved survival and resulted in fewer severe side effects than the standard approach of initial therapy with amphotericin B.
In patients without neutropenia and without major immunodeficiency, fluconazole and amphotericin B are not significantly different in their effectiveness in treating candidemia.
Voriconazole is a suitable alternative to amphotericin B preparations for empirical antifungal therapy in patients with neutropenia and persistent fever.
This study identifies significant differences in candidemia in neonates, children, and adults. Neonatologists and pediatricians must consider age-specific differences when interpreting adult studies and developing treatment and prevention guidelines.
Preemptive treatment increased the incidence of invasive fungal disease, without increasing mortality, and decreased the costs of antifungal drugs. Empirical treatment may provide better survival rates for patients receiving induction chemotherapy.
Response rates for the primary composite endpoint for both treatment groups in this study were driven by low rates of fever resolution. Requiring fever resolution during neutropenia in a composite endpoint can mask more clinically relevant outcomes.
These observations document significant changes in frequency, aetiology and underlying disease processes in invasive fungal infections at autopsy and underscore the continuing need for more effective prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
Randomized trials are warranted to determine whether this combination should be used as primary therapy for aspergillosis.
Caspofungin is at least as effective as amphotericin B for the treatment of invasive candidiasis and, more specifically, candidemia.
Mycograb plus lipid-associated amphotericin B produced significant clinical and culture-confirmed improvement in outcome for patients with invasive candidiasis.
Anidulafungin was shown to be noninferior to fluconazole in the treatment of invasive candidiasis. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Caspofungin is as effective as and generally better tolerated than liposomal amphotericin B when given as empirical antifungal therapy in patients with persistent fever and neutropenia.
This study corroborates previous studies and many years of clinical experience showing that DAP is an effective and safe treatment for LEMS.
The high frequency of P/Q-type calcium-channel antibodies found in patients with Lambert-Eaton syndrome implies that antibodies of this specificity have a role in the presynaptic pathophysiology of this disorder.
These data do not support a hypothesis linking infertility treatment involving ovarian stimulation with increased breast, uterine and ovarian cancer over the follow-up period studied.
Considering calendar year at use, the OR was non-significantly above unity for women reporting fertility drug use after 1970. The OR was 0.6 among nulliparous women and 1.9 among parous ones.
Prolonged use of clomiphene may increase the risk of a borderline or invasive ovarian tumor.
We conclude that the use of ovulation induction agents, in particular hMG, may increase the risk of epithelial ovarian tumors.
Ovarian stimulation for IVF may increase the risk of ovarian malignancies, especially borderline ovarian tumours. More large cohort studies are needed to confirm these findings and to examine the effect of IVF treatment characteristics.
These findings suggest that further attention be given to the risk of breast, ovarian and hematopoietic cancers among women with endometriosis and to exploring possible hormonal and immunologic reasons for the excess risks.
There is probably a relationship between ovarian epithelial dysplasia and either ovulation inducing drugs or infertility. By Fathalla's incessant ovulation theory, 'the dose effect and the time effect' of ovarian stimulation may explain ovarian dysplasia formation.
Despite the small numbers of observed cancer cases, these findings demonstrate that children conceived by ART have no greatly increased risk of cancer during childhood compared with the general population and the internal reference group.
These results suggest that infertility itself, without concomitant exposure to fertility drugs, may increase risk of fatal ovarian cancer among nulligravid women.
We confirmed already known risk factors for ovarian cancer, and we observed significant differences in the risk profiles between mucinous and nonmucinous tumors indicating different etiologies.
Our patients emphasize the need for follow-up and long-term prospective studies in infertile women who have been evaluated or treated for infertility.
As well as providing some reassurance about the safety of IVF treatments, the findings point to the existence of a 'healthy patient effect' whereby the unhealthiest women in the population are deterred from pregnancy and infertility treatment.
These results compare favorably with other studies of sub-optimally debulked patients.
We conclude that in surgical practice there is considerable variation in the timing of prophylactic administration of antibiotics and that administration in the two hours before surgery reduces the risk of wound infection.
Compared to 3 cycles, 6 cycles of C and P do not significantly alter the recurrence rate in high risk early stage EOC but are associated with more toxicity.
Thoracic radiotherapy moderately improves survival in patients with limited small-cell lung cancer who are treated with combination chemotherapy. Identification of the optimal combination of chemotherapy and radiotherapy will require further trials.
When platinum-based chemotherapy concurrently with chest RT is used, the 2- and 5-year survival rates of patients with LS-SCLC may be in favour of early chest radiotherapy, with a significant difference if the overall treatment time of chest radiation is less than 30 days.
This meta-analysis shows a small but significant improvement in survival and a major improvement in tumor control in the thorax in patients receiving thoracic radiation therapy. However, this is achieved at the cost of a small increase in treatment-related mortality.
R3 total gastrectomy can be performed with a low mortality, but it has a high morbidity because of intra-abdominal sepsis. The data do not support the routine use of R3 total gastrectomy for treatment of patients with antral cancer.
As compared with D2 lymphadenectomy alone, treatment with D2 lymphadenectomy plus PAND does not improve the survival rate in curable gastric cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
If R2 resections are carried out by properly trained surgeons under supervision, they can be done safely. The reported high morbidity after R2 resection in Western countries seems to result from a lack of proper instruction and quality control.
Our results in Dutch patients do not support the routine use of D2 lymph-node dissection in patients with gastric cancer.
The interim safety analysis failed to show any significant difference with regard to the extent of lymph node dissection. The surgical outcome was not different between the 2 surgeries.
Preservation of the spleen and pancreas during extended lymphadenectomy for gastric cancer decreases complications with no clear evidence of improvement or detriment to overall survival.
As recent studies have demonstrated comparable short-term surgical outcomes for both D1 and D2 lymphadenectomies, consideration should be made for more extensive lymph node dissection among patients with advanced stage.
The present meta-analysis indicates that D2 lymphadenectomy with spleen and pancreas preservation offers the most survival benefit for patients with gastric cancer when done safety.
The results suggest that D2 and D3 surgery may not offer specific advantages for gastric cancer and instead may lead to disadvantages for patient outcomes.
Systemic corticosteroids were strongly associated with AVN, however, the effect was not clearly evident at 3-year cumulative doses </=430 mg. Copyright (c) 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Pelvic irradiation substantially increases the risk of pelvic fractures in older women. Given the high baseline risk of pelvic fracture, this finding is of particular concern.
In a sample of older women and men, all low-trauma fractures were associated with increased mortality risk for 5 to 10 years. Subsequent fracture was associated with increased mortality risk for an additional 5 years.
SI fractures were uncommon in patients treated with preoperative chemoradiation for rectal cancer. The risk of SI fractures was significantly higher in women. Most cases of SI fractures can be managed conservatively with pain medications.
We should consider reducing the dose contribution to the sacrum and sacroilac joints, without underdosing the tumor, especially in postmenopausal women with many deliveries or low body weight.
Initial therapy of metastatic breast cancer with paclitaxel plus bevacizumab prolongs progression-free survival, but not overall survival, as compared with paclitaxel alone. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The results show that cytosolic levels of VEGF in tumor tissue samples are indicative of prognosis for patients with node-negative breast carcinoma.
Dialysis modality had no significant impact on all-cause or infection-related mortality. More studies are needed to clarify the putative difference in cardiovascular mortality risk between diabetic patients on PD and diabetic patients on HD.
The estimated cumulative recurrence rate for the surgery of Stage II or III left-sided colon cancers was the same between laparoscopic and open methods.
We conclude that a noncutting needle should be used for patients at high risk for PDPH, and the smallest gauge needle available should be used for all patients.
Chemotherapy produces a small survival benefit in patients with curatively resected gastric cancer. However, taking into account the limitations of literature based meta-analyses, adjuvant chemotherapy is still to be considered as an investigational approach.
Stepwise improvements in efficacy of chemotherapy and targeted treatments cumulatively have achieved major improvements in the survival of patients with advanced breast cancer. Many options that can be used in first and subsequent lines of therapy have comparable efficacy profiles.
Core needle biopsy did not increase the incidence of SSI. Antibiotic prophylaxis did not prevent SSI, probably because so few infections occurred.
Host factors may contribute to SSI in breast procedures. Cefazolin sodium prophylaxis was useful in preventing SSI after breast surgery.
The results indicate clear benefit for routine antibiotic prophylaxis in clean surgical procedures. High risk patients need more study.
Previous anticancer chemotherapy was a major risk factor. In these cases, a phase III trial could confirm efficacy of standard antibiotic prophylaxis. Breast reconstruction was the second major risk factor. Standard antibiotic prophylaxis (used in our study) was insufficient.
Gum chewing aids early recovery from postoperative ileus and is an inexpensive and physiologic method for stimulating bowel motility. Gum chewing should be added as an adjunct treatment in postoperative care because it might contribute to shorter hospital stays.
Chewing gum had stimulatory effects on bowel motility after cystectomy and urinary diversion. Chewing gum was safe and could be used for postoperative ileus regardless of the operative method (ORC or RARC).
It was concluded that gum-chewing provides a simple and effective method to improve the postoperative state of patients.
The study results demonstrated that bowel motility after cesarean section in nulliparous women can be accelerated by gum chewing which is a useful, inexpensive and well-tolerated method for mothers in post-cesarean section.
Sham feeding with gum, after open and laparoscopic colorectal resectional surgery is safe, but does not hasten the return of gastrointestinal function in patients who receive accelerated postoperative feeding. (ACTRN12607000538448).
The cases of relaparotomy requiring additional adhesiolysis and small bowel anastomosis for stoma closure are benefited by postoperative gum chewing.
In contrast to findings of a preliminary study, our clinical trial suggests that gum chewing, although safe, does not reduce duration of postcolectomy ileus.
Early oral feeding, early mobilisation and chewing gum are effective methods in terms of preventing paralytic ileus following abdominal gynaecological surgery, improving patient comfort and shortening the duration of hospitalisation.
Chewing-gum significantly reduces GTT and SBTT during CE. Its use may improve the likelihood of the capsule reaching the caecum without affecting CE image quality.
Gum chewing enhances early recovery of bowel function following transperitoneal abdominal aortic surgery. Moreover, it is a physiologically sound, safe, and an inexpensive part of the postoperative care.
The use of gum chewing in the postoperative period is a safe method to stimulate bowel motility and reduce ileus after colorectal surgery.
Chewing gum for 30-60 minutes at least three times a day appears to be effective in reducing the incidence and consequences of POI following caesarean sections.
In conclusion, in addition to the gastrointestinal prokinetic action, DKT serves as a novel therapeutic agent for POI characterized by its anti-inflammatory potency. The DKT-induced anti-inflammatory activity may be partly mediated by activation of α7nAChR.
Chewing-gum therapy following open gastrointestinal surgery is beneficial in reducing the period of postoperative ileus, although without a significant reduction in length of hospital stay. These outcomes are not significant for laparoscopic gastrointestinal surgery.
Gum chewing may speed the recovery of bowel function after cystectomy and diversion. These findings are consistent with outcomes in the colorectal surgery published data that support the use of chewing gum as an easy and inexpensive way to enhance recovery after surgery.
Results of the meta-analysis suggest that chewing gum following abdominal surgery offers benefits in reducing the time of postoperative ileus.
Gum chewing significantly reduced time to flatus and feces; however, hospital stay and postoperative complications were not reduced. Significant study heterogeneity means that these results should be interpreted with caution.
Chewing gum may enhance intestinal recovery following colectomy and reduce the length of hospital stay. Owing to the potential for substantial cost savings, larger-scale, blinded, randomized controlled trials with placebo arms are warranted.
Our results showed that increasing age and BMI were significantly associated with the presence of POI in patients undergoing radical cystectomy for bladder cancer.
Alvimopan showed significant advantages over placebo in restoring gastro-intestinal function, and reduced time to discharge following major abdominal surgery, with acceptable side effects.
In this study, the balloon sampler was more sensitive than the sponge sampler for detecting esophageal squamous disease, but both techniques were less than optimal. Improved samplers and/or cytologic criteria should increase the sensitivities observed in this baseline study.
A prior EGD was associated with an improved stage at the diagnosis of EAC but did not alter long-term survival. In the absence of prospective, randomized, controlled trials, the benefit of screening and surveillance to decrease mortality from EAC cannot be confirmed.
This study, using Eurocim data, supports the findings from other time-trend studies of population-based cancer registries in western countries.
These results suggest that different risk factors may be associated with adenocarcinomas of the oesophagus versus the proximal stomach; the marked rate variation implies a substantial environmental component to the recent incidence changes.
Screening 50-year-old men with symptoms of GERD to detect adenocarcinoma associated with Barrett esophagus is probably cost-effective. However, subsequent surveillance of patients with Barrett esophagus but no dysplasia, even at 5-year intervals, is an expensive practice.
Based on this review of BE, the opinions of workshop members on issues pertaining to screening and surveillance are at variance with published clinical guidelines.
Under favorable conditions, general screening by endoscopy of all patients with reflux symptoms to prevent death from esophageal adenocarcinoma may represent a cost-effective strategy; however, such conditions may be difficult to meet.
The observation of objective responses and tolerable side effects in this heterogeneous population of patients supports the further investigation of this agent in high-grade gliomas.
Studies utilising quality of life outcomes should give early consideration to minimising avoidable sources of missing data and recording the reasons for non-compliance. Quality of life studies basing conclusions on a complete case analysis should be wary of possible bias.
In persons with a previous nonmelanoma skin cancer, treatment with beta carotene does not reduce the occurrence of new skin cancers over a five-year period of treatment and observation.
It is possible to implement the daily application of sunscreen in sun-exposed populations, although protection would be increased if the quantity of sunscreen applied were greater.
This study identified osteoporosis in patients who received long-term therapy with etretinate but not isotretinoin. Prospective studies of BMD would be useful to further define retinoid-associated osteoporosis.
This study provides additional evidence of an association between NMSC and another malignancy in a large, multiethnic population.
A trend toward less immune suppression in patients receiving IMN is supported in this study.
For patients with limited options for treatment of advanced primary or recurrent cancer, exenteration offers a reasonable prospect of survival with good quality of life.
The results indicate a specific effect of Re-Mission play on cancer knowledge that is not attributable to patients' expectations. It is concluded that video games can be an effective vehicle for health education in adolescents and young adults with chronic illnesses.
Involvement in decision making is a key facet of patient participation in health care and the OPTION scale provides a validated outcome measure for future empirical studies.
Open prostatectomy surgery with general anesthesia, substituting epidural analgesia for postoperative opioids, was associated with substantially less risk of biochemical cancer recurrence. Prospective randomized trials to evaluate this association seem warranted.
In this study, there appears to be no significant advantage to be gained in overall or disease-free survival with the use of regional analgesia compared with opioid analgesia after laparoscopic colorectal resection.
Intraoperative use of epidural anesthesia was associated with an increased time to tumor recurrence after surgery in ovarian cancer patients. This may be a result of preservation of the immune system function.
These data suggest an association between anaesthetic technique and cancer outcome in MM patients after lymph-node dissection. Prospective controlled trials on this topic are warranted.
We found a reduction in all-cause mortality after rectal but not colon cancer in patients having EDA compared with PCA technique.
Using neuraxial anaesthesia during brachytherapy for patients with cervical cancer was not associated with a reduced risk of tumour recurrence and mortality when compared with general anaesthesia.
After PS matching and weighting, we found no benefit in overall survival or time to recurrence in patients with advanced stages (International Federation of Gynecologists and Obstetricians IIIC and IV) of ovarian cancer after the use of EA during and after tumor debulking surgery.
This retrospective analysis suggests that epidural anaesthesia and analgesia for ovarian serous adenocarcinoma surgery may reduce mortality during the initial years of follow-up.
The results of this study suggest that cellular immunity, especially cytotoxicity, shortly after esophagectomy may be greatly impaired by the surgical stress of esophagectomy and an added effect of chemotherapy.
General anaesthesia combined with epidural analgesia did not reduce the risk of cancer progression or improve survival after RRP for prostate cancer in this group of patients at high risk for disease progression with a median observation time of 14.00 yrs.
Video-assisted lobectomy, as compared with open lobectomy, for non-small cell lung cancer may increase the risk of seeding tumor cells into the circulation during operation.
These results suggest that morphine administration, at doses within the range of analgesic use, can cause measurable suppression of some components of the human cellular immune system.
In patients with early breast cancer who undergo breast-conserving surgery and receive 50 Gy of radiation to the whole breast, an additional dose of 16 Gy of radiation to the tumor bed reduces the risk of local recurrence, especially in patients younger than 50 years of age.
This study supports an inverse association between physical activity and breast cancer among black women and among white women.
ECP treatment may be helpful for the treatment of severe c-GVHD and the avoidance of increased immunosuppression.
Recipients of cord-blood transplants from HLA-identical siblings have a lower incidence of acute and chronic GVHD than recipients of bone marrow transplants from HLA-identical siblings.
Prognostic factors include histologic type, grade, stage, and coexisting adenomas. These data should be included in pathology reports. Although certain histologic types exhibit morphologic differences, their pathogenesis appears to be similar.
If followed, the proposed eight-step procedure will increase the validity of assessments of intervention effects in systematic reviews of randomised clinical trials.
Our results indicate that the treatment of cholangiocarcinomas with gemcitabine is effective and should be further evaluated in phase III studies. In contrast, palliative chemotherapy with gemcitabine cannot be recommended in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis.
Gemcitabine plus cisplatin combination therapy was found to be effective and well tolerated, suggesting that it could also be a standard regimen for Japanese patients.
There has been a marked global increase in mortality from intrahepatic, but not extra-hepatic, biliary tract malignancies.
Two-weekly high-dose gemcitabine seems to represent a potentially effective, safe and well-tolerated regimen for the palliative treatment of patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.
The incidence of ICC continues to rise in the USA. The stable proportions over time of patients with early stage disease, unstaged disease, tumor size <5 cm, and microscopic confirmation suggest a true increase of ICC.
Adding oxaliplatin to a regimen of fluorouracil and leucovorin improves the adjuvant treatment of colon cancer.
The lethality of small-intestinal adenocarcinoma appears to be related to a delay in diagnosis and treatment. When a definitive surgical procedure is performed before lymph node metastases appear, the patient's chance for long-term survival is greatly improved.
Performing an oncologic surgery resulted in the best outcome in patients with nonmetastatic disease. Because cancer-directed surgery is associated with high morbidity and mortality in primary centers, these patients should be referred to a tertiary center for adequate treatment.
The overall mortality and life-time risk of cancer in patients with Crohn's disease was not found increased, although the risk of rare small bowel cancer was significantly increased.
The occurrence of colorectal cancer was not increased.
Physiological symptoms and psychological symptoms were both significant predictors of QOL. The psychological factors that predicted quality of life in this study have potential for intervention and point to the next stage of the research.
Prophylactic administration of fluconazole to recipients of bone marrow transplants reduces the incidence of both systemic and superficial fungal infections.
The present results indicate that high-dose fluconazole and itraconazole are equivalent; neither of them was superior to low-dose fluconazole, which is regarded as being devoid of prophylactic activity against systemic mycoses.
At the dose used in this study, AMB was no more effective and was more toxic than FLU for prophylaxis of fungal infections in patients undergoing remission induction chemotherapy for acute leukemia.
In this study there were no differences in the efficacy and safety of itraconazole and fluconazole prophylaxis in neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies.
These results suggest that fluconazole is an equally effective but less toxic alternative to amphotericin B as empiric antifungal therapy in cancer patients with prolonged fever and neutropenia.
L-AmB and F+I appear similar in their efficacy as antifungal prophylaxis during induction chemotherapy for patients with AML and MDS. L-AmB was associated with higher rates of increased serum bilirubin and creatinine levels.
This randomized trial suggests that ABLC at 1 mg/kg/d produces less nephrotoxicity than c-AmB, without differences in the incidence of IRAEs and with similar efficacy.
To facilitate the interpretation of results from such CAM RCTs, investigators are encouraged to pay greater attention to key methodological issues as identified in this study.
Concurrent therapy with cisplatin and fluorouracil and radiation is superior to radiation therapy alone in patients with localized carcinoma of the esophagus, as measured by control of local tumors, distant metastases, and survival, but at the cost of increased side effects.
Expansile metal stents are a safe and cost-effective alternative to conventional plastic endoprostheses in the treatment of esophageal obstruction due to inoperable cancer.
The prevalence of urothelial carcinoma among patients with end-stage Chinese-herb nephropathy (caused by aristolochia species) is a high.
Solanum nigrum, beans, and pumpkin all contain protease inhibitors. Suppression of protease inhibitors can lead to overexpression of growth factors in the esophagus, resulting in a proliferative and oncogenic drive.
We conclude that treatment of malignant esophageal obstructions, including esophagorespiratory fistulas, with SEMS is an alternative palliative procedure. Furthermore SEMS implantation seems more safe in the case of tumor stenoses locating in the middle esophagus.
No consensus of opinion exists regarding the optimal approach or extent of esophageal resection for cancer. Prospective, randomized trials of neoadjuvant therapy may determine its efficacy. Newer approaches may enhance quality of life.
The use of reviparin-sodium for short-term prophylaxis of CVL-related VTE in children was safe but its efficacy remains unclear. Although underpowered, PROTEKT provided valuable information on event rates and predictors of CVL-related VTE.
VTE prophylaxis is underutilized at AUBMC, a tertiary care teaching hospital in the Middle East. Critical care patients were being acceptably anti-coagulated, whereas cancer patients are doing the worst.
Peak anti-factor Xa levels (0.1-0.3 U/ml) using reviparin-sodium are achieved by administering 50 IU/kg in children greater than 3 months of age and 30 U/kg in children less than 3 months of age.
We found that 5,000 IU of IL-UK were as effective as 25,000 IU to resolve withdrawal occlusion in partially implanted CVCs and that systemic treatment with urokinase may rescue a significant proportion of CVCs refractory to IL-UK or that are apparently completely occluded.
The infusion of heparin and rt-PA is potentially effective in thrombosis related to use of central venous catheters, but the risk of haemorrhage is not inconsiderable.
The clinical practice of UKCCSG centres regarding prevention, investigation and treatment of CVC-occlusion/thrombosis varies greatly. Additional trials should facilitate development of evidence-based guidelines.
Patients with cancer have a highly increased risk of venous thrombosis especially in the first few months after diagnosis and in the presence of distant metastases. Carriers of the factor V Leiden and prothrombin 20210A mutations appear to have an even higher risk.
The present meta-analysis indicates that detection of IT is clinically meaningful in children with, or at risk for, VTE and underscores the importance of pediatric thrombophilia screening programs.
Preoperative chemotherapy with a combination of etoposide and cisplatin significantly improved overall survival in patients with OSCC.
Preoperative chemotherapy with a combination of cisplatin and fluorouracil did not improve overall survival among patients with epidermoid cancer or adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.
Preoperative chemotherapy was safe and resulted in significant downstaging and an increased likelihood of curative resection. Survival was not better than that in the surgery-alone group, but responders did fare better than nonresponders.
There seems to be a modest survival advantage for patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery, as compared with surgery alone. There is an apparent increase in treatment-related mortality, mainly for patients who receive neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.
Adjuvant radiotherapy gave good results in terms of local control in patients with completely resected NSCLC with pathological Stage I. Overall 5-year survival and disease-free survival showed a promising trend. Treatment-related toxicity is acceptable.
Stage I T2 N0 M0 non-small cell lung carcinoma tends to manifest distant metastasis. Prospective studies of stratified systemic adjuvant therapy should improve the present moderate result of radical resection in this group of tumors.
Although fruits and vegetables may confer protection against some chronic diseases, their frequent consumption does not appear to confer protection from colon or rectal cancer.
Individuals who consume very low amounts of fruit and vegetables have the greatest risk of colorectal cancer. Relatively high consumption of cereal fiber does not appear to lower the risk of colorectal cancer.
This regimen of paclitaxel and cisplatin is effective, safe and convenient to administer in an outpatient setting for advanced urothelial cancer.
Thalidomide treatment appeared to reverse the loss of weight and lean body mass over the 2-week trial period.
The ActivPAL™ is acceptable to patients with outcomes obtained over 6 days recommended for use in future studies.
The most effective treatment for all three primary efficacy endpoints as well as secondary endpoints appetite, IL-6, GPS and ECOG PS was the combination regimen that included all selected agents.
Caregivers believed that patient-nutrition cessation was naturally occurring and not physically painful.
There are several existing and emerging drugs with the potential to ameliorate cancer cachexia, but the most efficacious treatment will probably come from combined drug therapies.
This study highlights the anxiety that surrounds eating and the distress it causes to patients and their families. This strain can escalate into arguments over food, causing negative repercussions for patients and their family members.
The normal variation in body weight and body composition increases over time. Time-dependent criteria may increase the sensitivity in diagnosing malnutrition. Interpreting changes in body compartments requires consideration of the size of each compartment.
IPCH appears to be a promising new approach to treating patients with digestive tract cancers and peritoneal carcinomatosis with small, malignant granulations (Stage I and II).
The meta-analysis showed that combined therapy involving CRS and PIC had a statistically significant survival benefit over control groups.
This supports the use of complete cytoreductive surgery in selected patients and calls for a prospective randomized trial comparing adjuvant systemic chemotherapy with intraperitoneal chemohyperthermia after complete resection.
Considering the dismal prognosis of this condition, HIIC seems to achieve encouraging results in a selected group of patients affected with resectable peritoneal carcinomatosis arising from colon adenocarcinoma. These findings support the conduction of formal phase III randomized trials.
The detection of minimal residual disease in the peritoneal cavity serves as a new prognostic marker.
CS and IPHC with mitomycin C can improve outcomes for select patients with peritoneal spread from NACC. One third of patients who undergo complete resection of gross disease have long-term survival.
If patients can be treated early when the volume of peritoneal surface cancer is low or if the patient can be made disease free by surgery, then intraperitoneal chemotherapy may be expected to achieve long-term disease-free survival in a majority of selected patients.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin is safe and effective for the treatment of AIDS-related KS, with most patients experiencing clinical benefit, tumor response, or both.
Limb preservation was effectively achieved through definitive RT. Treating limited field sizes with hyperfractionated high-energy RT could minimize long-term complications and provides superior functional outcomes.
Patients with ESFT are at risk for SM after treatment. The cumulative incidence of SM is higher with the current treatment protocols and may be related to the intensification of chemotherapeutic agents.
The results indicate that fatigue and psychological distress are common in the working population. Although closely associated, there is some evidence suggesting that fatigue and psychological distress are different conditions, which can be measured independently.
This metaanalysis confirmed that epoetin alfa improves QOL significantly in patients with cancer, emphasizing the need to manage anemia in this population.
The poor results compared with the reference series may be explained by a longer follow-up (mean 12 months), less thorough treatment of all puncture sites and a very long delay before treatment (mean 37 days).
Radical pleurectomy/decortication with aggressive radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy might offer an alternative treatment option to those who cannot tolerate extrapleural pneumonectomy.
Extrapleural pneumonectomy with adjuvant therapy is appropriate treatment for selected patients with malignant mesothelioma selected using a revised staging system.
In south east England most cases of malignant mesothelioma are associated with asbestos exposure. Clinical features do not differentiate between asbestos related and non-asbestos related disease.
Short-term postoperative morbidity was similar in the two groups. Laparoscopic resection reduced length of hospital stay, improved first-year quality of life, and slightly increased hospital costs.
Laparoscopic-assisted APR improves postoperative recovery and seemingly does not jeopardize survival when compared with open surgery for low rectal cancer. A larger sample size is needed to fully assess oncological outcomes.
Laparoscopic resection of the rectum can achieve similar lymph node clearance to the open approach. Also, distribution of the lymph nodes along the resected specimens is similar between the two approaches.
Optimal perioperative treatment for patients requiring segmental colectomy for colon cancer is laparoscopic resection embedded in a FT program. If open surgery is applied, it is preferentially done in FT care. This study was registered under NTR222 (www.trialregister.nl).
Laparoscopic D(3) lymphadenectomy combined with PANP is not associated with higher sexual dysfunction rate, and the sexual function after laparoscopic surgery is satisfactory.
Data gathered in this meta-analysis indicate that there are no oncologic differences between laparoscopic and open resections for treatment of primary rectal cancer.
Laparoscopic resection of carcinoma of the colon is associated with a long-term outcome that is similar to that after open colectomy. Laparoscopic surgery for cancer of the upper rectum is feasible, but more randomised trials need to be conducted to assess long-term outcome.
Our results suggest that a learning curve is necessary for the development of technical expertise in the performance of TME for treatment of rectal cancer.
Laparoscopic surgery may be an acceptable alternative treatment option to conventional open surgery for rectal cancer.
This analysis, using total operative time as an indication of learning, shows that approximately 11 to 15 completed laparoscopic colectomies are needed to comfortably learn this procedure.
This study analyzed a wide cohort of high-risk neuroblastoma survivors from a multi-institutional randomized trial and established the profile of long-term toxicity within the setting of an international clinical trial.
The results of this pilot study show that ¹³¹I-MIBG, in combination with chemotherapy, appears to play an important role in a new and effective induction regimen for advanced NB.
OPEC/OJEC is a well-tolerated therapy for stage 4 neuroblastoma over 1 year of age.
The long-term results of this first prospective cohort of patients with metastatic disease treated with the N7 induction chemotherapy and HDC (Bu-Mel) confirm published data with stable survival curves but with a longer follow-up.
Major toxicities were grade 4 myelosuppression and mucositis during chemotherapy, and self-limited pain and urticaria during antibody treatment. Late effects include hearing deficits and hypothyroidism.
Adults with neuroblastoma have significantly worse outcome than children. This may be due to tumor biology, more virulent clinical course, or possibly due to the fact that adults are less sensitive or have poor tolerance to pediatric chemotherapy regimens.
For overall staging of cervical carcinoma, MRI is more accurate than CT.
This project has produced an evidence based quality assessment tool to be used in systematic reviews of diagnostic accuracy studies. Further work to determine the usability and validity of the tool continues.
Our analysis of risk factors for perioperative blood transfusion in rectal resection for cancer must be considered to constitute guidelines for a more responsible use of the expensive alternatives to allogeneic blood transfusion.
The use of autologous blood as compared with allogeneic blood for transfusion does not improve the prognosis in patients with colorectal cancer. Regardless of their type, transfusions are associated with poor prognosis, probably because of the circumstances that necessitate them.
These findings suggest that the association between blood transfusions and prognosis in colorectal cancer is a result of the circumstances that necessitate transfusions, leading to the development of local recurrences, but not of distant metastases.
This study suggests that blood transfusion is likely to have a detrimental effect on disease-free interval after resective surgery of rectal cancer.
The findings showed that LR for rectal cancer was safe and effective, resulting in faster recovery and a similar complication rate compared with OR. Conversion did not alter the patients' outcomes.
Inclusion of more variables in PSCRC seems to make it superior to the staging systems. PSCRC may be a practical and useful scoring system in clinical practice and is easily adapted to different patient populations.
Preoperative PVE is a safe and effective method of increasing the remnant liver volume before extended hepatectomy. Increasing the remnant liver volume in patients with estimated postresection volumes of less than 25% appears to reduce postoperative liver dysfunction.
Mortality following potentially curative surgery for colorectal cancer in Dunedin has not changed significantly since the previous study 15 years earlier and is similar to more recently published data from other New Zealand centres.
Increased numbers of blood units were associated with postoperative mortality. However, there is no reason, with respect to cancer recurrence or disease-free survival, to use a program of transfusion with autologous blood in patients undergoing surgery for rectal cancer.
Perioperative blood transfusion is a risk factor for poor outcome after liver resection. Blood conservation methods should be used to avoid transfusion, especially in patents currently requiring limited amounts of transfused blood products.
Local recurrence, perioperative blood transfusion, lymph node metastasis, and T stage are important prognostic factors of low and middle rectal cancer. LAR has become the preferred option in curative surgery for low and middle rectal cancer.
Oral ferrous sulphate given pre-operatively in patients undergoing colorectal surgery offers a simple, inexpensive method of reducing blood transfusions.
In regard to the two therapeutic approaches, the cost of treatment per patient and per cycle using oral UFT/folinic acid was less than that using intravenous FU/folinic acid.
There seems to be no major change in lymphocyte subpopulations and NK cell function 6 months after blood transfusion. Thus we cannot confirm our previous findings of a reduced number of CD20+ cells after blood transfusion.
Because of the low incidence of side effects and the rapid increase of hemoglobin levels, IVIS emerges as a safe, effective drug for treating preoperative anemia in these patient populations.
These data indicate that shorter hospital stays do not compromise disease-free survival of patients with colorectal cancer.
Together these factors accounted for only a fifth of the variability in length of stay and few, except possibly ASA, were susceptible of interventions that might reduce stay. Postoperative morbidity, which is largely unpredictable, remains the major cause of prolonged hospital stay.
Long-term followup data will be needed to determine whether there will be a lower incidence of biochemical relapse as determined by prostate specific antigen, local recurrence or metastasis, with an improvement in patient survival.
Over the 12-year period of the study the SP rate in rectal cancers 1 - 5 cm from the anorectal line has increased significantly while the blood transfusion volume has decreased due to the introduction of TME. However, TME had no effect on operating time and leakage rates.
Surgical outcomes in lower volume hospitals are comparable with those reported by larger centres.
A consistently detrimental association was discovered between the use of perioperative blood transfusion and colorectal cancer recurrence. Further studies are needed to confirm that blood transfusion has a causal association.
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin prolonged time to recurrence when compared with epirubicin. Grading was shown to be a universal prognostic factor for recurrence, progression and disease specific survival.
Intravesical epirubicin and BCG were superior to transurethral resection alone in the prophylaxis of superficial bladder cancer, but with respect to superficially invasive and high-grade tumors, BCG demonstrated a remarkable advantage.
Sequential BCG and epirubicin are comparable to BCG alone in efficacy and superior in terms of toxicity.
Prostatic urethral sampling should be considered necessary in intermediate and high risk patients with superficial TCC of the bladder. Intravesical therapy, especially with BCG seems to be an effective treatment alternative in the management of mucosal PU involvement.
For prophylaxis of recurrence, BCG was more effective than the combination. There were no differences regarding progression and adverse events between the two treatments.
The sensitivity and specificity of the uCyt+ test are not significantly affected by intravesical long-term treatment with epirubicin or BCG.
The management of superficial bladder cancer could be improved by a more widespread use of intravesical therapy, along with the introduction of local protocols and national guidelines.
A 6-week course of intravesical valrubicin has proved effective in ablating a marker tumour left in the bladder after incomplete TURBT and in preventing or delaying recurrence of further tumours in a group of patients with previously treated superficial TCC.
If no concomitant Tis exist, a conservative approach is a legitimate option as an initial treatment of patients with primary T1, G3 bladder tumors.
While a correlation between BCG toxicity and efficacy exists, this study does not confirm that BCG toxicity is actually responsible for an improved outcome.
Intravesical BCG significantly reduces the risk of short and long-term treatment failure compared with intravesical chemotherapy. Therefore, it is considered to be the intravesical agent of choice in the treatment of CIS.
The histological complete response rate after 6 consecutive instillations of apaziquone in patients with superficial bladder cancer was 67% (95% CI 51 to 80). Local side effects were comparable to side effects due to other chemotherapy instillations.
Pathology review is not mandatory in low and intermediate risk cases since it has little impact on the prognosis and treatment decision making. In high risk cases of stage T1 grade 3 disease stage or grade is often changed, so that review remains essential in this subgroup.
Risk-adapted first-line adjuvant therapy for NMIBC after TURBT is well established but has its limitations because recurrences are still numerous. Some new drugs and second-line therapies are promising, but efficacy should be confirmed.
Our study indicates that long-term instillation of epirubicin is more effective than short-term instillation in preventing recurrence after transurethral resection of Ta/T1 bladder cancer.
A single instillation of intravesical epirubicin has a demonstrable effect in superficial bladder cancer. The results compare favourably with more onerous regimes. Side-effects were minimal at 1 mg/ml and acceptable at 2 mg/ml.
In a large series of patients with nonmetastatic gestational trophoblastic disease, single-agent methotrexate chemotherapy proved to be an extremely well-tolerated and effective treatment.
This trial could not show a beneficial effect of pre-operative FAMTX. Until large randomised studies prove otherwise, adequate surgery without delay is the best treatment for operable gastric cancer.
These data support that administration of preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy for local-regional gastric carcinoma is feasible in a multi-institutional setting. Our findings demonstrate that this EAP regimen is modestly active but is associated with substantial toxicity.
In our large multicentre RCT dataset, no significant differences were demonstrated on multivariate analyses in OS, RR and toxic effects among patients with advanced oesophageal, OGJ and gastric adenocarcinoma. Future RCTs should not exclude oesophageal adenocarcinoma.
Surveillance programs for Barrett's are identifying patients with early, curable adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction. Therapy for more advanced tumors hinges on local control of the disease and the eradication of systemic metastases.
Toremifene is a valid and safe alternative to tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with endocrine-responsive breast cancer.
The risk-reducing effect of tamoxifen appears to persist for at least 10 years, but most side effects of tamoxifen do not continue after the 5-year treatment period.
The tamoxifen-induced increase in IGFBP-1 plasma levels may be an important mechanism modulating IGF-I action at the tissue level.
Collectively, our data indicate that both G-CSF preparations are equally effective in hastening leukocyte recovery in the setting of high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous PBSCT.
hASCs emerge as key regulators of immune tolerance and as attractive candidates for a cell-based therapy for Crohn's disease.
Prevalence rates, but not incidence rates, for inflammatory bowel disease are substantially higher than previously described in UK populations. General practitioners make a significant contribution to meeting the healthcare needs of these patients.
In treatment of postoperational large intestinal cancer, the effect of FZYAD combined chemotherapy is better than that of chemotherapy alone in immune function regulation, cancer inhibition, relapse prevention and survival time prolongation.
For scald mice, the cause of death at early stage might be related to the high expression of TNF-alpha mRNA in pMPhis and the use of SI can decrease the death rate.
The findings of the current study suggest that the extent of lymph node resection improves the survival of women with intermediate/high-risk endometrioid uterine cancer.
Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection is an acceptable operation mode, although slightly increasing the incidence of ileus, compared with the TAH+BSO group. It is needed to choose appropriate indication in order to decrease the post-operative complications.
The present findings suggest that MRI and office endometrial sampling may accurately categorize patients into low- or high-risk groups. Lymphadenectomy should be limited to patients with high-risk endometrial cancer.
These results suggest a potential therapeutic role for formal PAL in endometrial cancer.
Compared to TAH, TLH is associated with a significantly decreased risk of major surgical AEs. A laparoscopic surgical approach to early stage endometrial cancer is safe.
Cervical ICG injection achieves a higher SLN detection rate and a similar anatomic nodal distribution as hysteroscopic endometrial injection for SLN mapping in patients with endometrial cancer.
Although a prospective, randomized study needs to be performed for confirmation, our data suggest that the therapeutic benefit of para-aortic lymphadenectomy is uncertain in stage I and II endometrioid uterine corpus cancer, even in patients at high-risk for recurrence.
Methods of assessing the success of blinding, analysis and reporting the results were inconsistent and questionable.
Compared with the previous VAD regimens, Hyper-CVAD was associated with significantly better CR rates, CR duration, and survival. The long-term follow-up results of Hyper-CVAD were favorable. Comparison of Hyper-CVAD with other established adult ALL regimens is warranted.
Overall, alloSCT was superior to ASCT or chemotherapy for patients with ALL in first complete remission. The survival advantage was of greater statistical significance for patients with SR ALL than for patients with HR ALL.
The authors concluded that for melanoma less than 2.1-mm thick, a margin of excision of 2 cm is sufficient. A larger margin of 5 cm does not appear to have any impact on either the rate or the time to disease recurrence or on survival.
MMS using frozen and rush permanent sections resulted in a 97% cure rate for LM and LMM. Because MMS minimizes the removal of normal tissue, and the cure rate exceeds that of conventional therapies, the authors recommend this technique for the treatment of LM and LMM.
The study showed that radiotherapy of LM and LMM was curative. In particular, radiotherapy proved to be an excellent treatment for elderly patients. Owing to the high incidence of other skin cancers, LM patients need careful follow-up.
Adequate treatment of LM requires a comprehensive knowledge of the diagnostic features, histopathology, and treatment options. Surgical modalities with meticulous evaluation of tissue margins appears to offer the lowest rates of disease recurrence.
Although imiquimod clearly has an effect on LM, this analysis of available studies has helped to identify concerns about its use. Without controlled evidence and prolonged follow up, the use of imiquimod for LM must still be considered experimental.
Topical imiquimod can be used successfully for the treatment of malignant melanoma in situ on the face.
OTFC appears effective in the treatment of cancer-related breakthrough pain.
Low-dose ketamine and transdermal nitroglycerin were effective coadjuvant analgesics. In conjunction with their opioid tolerance-sparing function, joint delivery of ketamine or nitric oxide donors with opiates may be of significant benefit in cancer pain management.
HBO therapy may be useful in management of adhesive intestinal obstruction associated with abdominal surgery, even in patients who fail to respond to other conservative treatments. HBO therapy may be a preferred option for treatment of patients for whom surgery should be avoided.
Our study showed that sesame oil was a safe and effective adjunct to the standard treatment of partial adhesive SBO.
In conservative treatment for challenging cases of ASBO, the long tube should be placed as soon as possible. The drainage volume through the long tube on day 3 (cut-off value; 500mL) was the indicator for surgery in ASBO.
Results suggest that noninfected gallstones and sterile bile, even in combination, do not increase postoperative intraabdominal complications in rats.
A relatively high proportion of patients was prescribed benzodiazepines. The role of benzodiazepines at different stages of palliative care merits further study.
Interferon alfa, when added to a four-drug doxorubicin-based chemotherapy regimen, is an effective antitumor agent in patients with clinically aggressive low-grade or intermediate-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
There is no apparent early advantage in terms of response or survival conferred by adding the study INF regimen to CHOP therapy for patients with IG/HG-NHL.
The integration of IFN and conventional chemotherapy is feasible and effective. Maintenance IFN prolongs remission duration for patients with stage IV low-grade lymphoma.
These findings demonstrate that FL and DLL cells may be clonally related or unrelated. They also show that transformation of FL cells can be associated with somatic point mutations of the bcl-2 oncogene ORF sequence resulting in alteration of the p26-bcl-2a gene product.
A bank containing 50,000 units is optimal for the UK and larger banks would only marginally increase the chance of finding suitable units.
The early use of deferoxamine in an amount proportional to the transfusional iron load reduces the body iron burden and helps protect against diabetes mellitus, cardiac disease, and early death in patients with thalassemia major.
The prognosis for survival without cardiac disease is excellent for patients with thalassemia major who receive regular transfusions and whose serum ferritin concentrations remain below 2500 ng per milliliter with chelation therapy.
Deferiprone does not adequately control body iron burden in patients with thalassemia and may worsen hepatic fibrosis.
In comparison to the standard chelation monotherapy of deferoxamine, combination treatment with additional deferiprone reduced myocardial iron and improved the ejection fraction and endothelial function in thalassemia major patients with mild to moderate cardiac iron loading.
Magnetic resonance-nonenhancing cerebral lesions may be histologically anaplastic, even in young patients. The risk of anaplasia in magnetic resonance-nonenhancing lesions increases significantly with patient age.
For patients in Norway with LGG, treatment at a center that favored early surgical resection was associated with better overall survival than treatment at a center that favored biopsy and watchful waiting. This survival benefit remained after adjusting for validated prognostic factors.
Moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, such as brisk walking, decreases IGF-I and IGFBP-3. The exercise-induced decreases in IGF may mediate the observed association between higher levels of physical activity and improved survival in women diagnosed with breast cancer.
Future studies of exercise and breast cancer prognosis should target obese women for participation, as well as women just beginning to contemplate participation and its benefits after a cancer diagnosis.
The results from this pilot study indicate that, at minimum, exercise does not exacerbate secondary lymphedema. Women with secondary lymphedema should be encouraged to be physically active, optimizing their physical and psychosocial recovery.
This pilot study provides promising support for the beneficial effects of a comprehensive yoga program for hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms in early-stage breast cancer survivors.
An 8-week multidimensional program including strengthening exercises, and massage as major components was effective for improving neck and shoulder pain and reducing widespread pressure hyperalgesia in breast cancer survivors compared with usual care treatment.
Women with advanced breast cancer randomized to the seated exercise intervention had a slower decline in total and physical well-being and less increase in fatigue scores starting with the third cycle of chemotherapy.
This study did not demonstrate a significant change in adipocytokine levels in breast cancer survivors participating in an exercise intervention, suggesting that further work is needed to explore the mechanisms through which exercise may impact breast cancer.
Our study suggests that early intensive prolonged PFE can further increase the number of continent patients and this improvement persists in the first 12 months. The second 6 months following surgery are still useful to recovery.
An 8-week cardiovascular exercise program in patients with localized prostate cancer undergoing radiotherapy improved cardiovascular fitness, flexibility, muscle strength, and overall QOL and prevented fatigue.
The TCC group exhibited significant improvements in functional capacity and QOL. These data suggest that TCC may enhance functional capacity and QOL among breast cancer survivors.
It can be concluded that exercise training may improve maximum aerobic capacity, RHR and anthropometric variables in postmenopausal women with breast cancer.
In breast-cancer survivors with lymphedema, slowly progressive weight lifting had no significant effect on limb swelling and resulted in a decreased incidence of exacerbations of lymphedema, reduced symptoms, and increased strength. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Behavior change and weight loss are achievable in overweight and obese ECS, however, the clinical implications of these changes are unknown and require a larger trial with longer follow-up.
A substantial number of individuals who have had a diagnosis of cancer experience ongoing poor health and well-being following cancer and cancer treatment. The results of this study provide an initial basis for the development of specific help and support for cancer survivors.
Increased central adiposity and a lack of regular physical activity prior to the diagnosis of colorectal cancer is associated with poorer overall and disease specific survival.
This taxonomy can be used to improve the specification of interventions in published reports, thus improving replication, implementation and evidence syntheses. This will strengthen the scientific study of behaviour change and intervention development.
Oregovomab was well tolerated and induced multiple antigen-specific immune responses, maintained during concomitant chemotherapy. A significant survival benefit was observed in patients mounting a T-cell response to CA125 and/or autologous tumor.
This vaccine strategy seems to be safe, is associated with both CD8 and CD4 immune responses, and has shown evidence of clinical activity. Further trials with this agent, either alone or in combination with immunopotentiating and other therapeutic agents, are warranted.
Abagovomab s.c. vaccination is safe and well tolerated. The long vaccination schedule tended to be more effective with regard to AB3-induction and cellular cytotoxicity.
Immunization with abagovomab is well tolerated and induced robust Ab3 responses at the two doses and routes tested. A phase III randomized study with abagovomab (2.0 mg s.c.) is warranted.
This heptavalent-KLH conjugate plus QS21 vaccine safely induced antibody responses against five of seven antigens. Investigation in an adequately powered efficacy trial is warranted.
Immunization produced T-cell responses in all patients with evidence of tumor stabilization in 2 of the 10 advanced cancer patients treated. These data support further clinical evaluation of this dendritic cell-MFP immunotherapy.
Current developments have the potential to result in substantial improvements in the outlook for women with ovarian cancer.
This study provides clinical support for an emerging paradigm in cancer immunotherapy, wherein optimal use of vaccination might be more effective, not as a separate modality, but in direct combination with chemotherapy.
These findings suggest potential clinical benefit for the combined use of docetaxel and recombinant cancer vaccines.
Further studies are required to better understand the role of gamma/delta T cells in ovarian carcinoma, yet these data underline the importance of host immune response to cancer and the need to better study immune mechanisms to modulate the therapeutic treatment of cancer.
The presence of intratumoral T cells correlates with improved clinical outcome in advanced ovarian carcinoma.
Sensitization of leukemic cells with growth factors is a clinically applicable means of enhancing the efficacy of chemotherapy in patients with AML.
Continuous glucose monitoring was associated with reduced time spent in hypoglycemia and a concomitant decrease in HbA(1c) in children and adults with type 1 diabetes.
This study provides important evidence for those considering the introduction of PoCT into general practice. For all tests except INR and HDL cholesterol, the PoCT approach demonstrated the same or better clinical effectiveness than pathology laboratory testing.
A postal request system for self testing for postprandial glycosuria in people aged 45-70 is a simple and effective method of population screening for diabetes mellitus.
The DPP screening approach identified adults with or at high risk for type 2 diabetes across various ethnic groups and provided guidance to more efficient use of OGTTs. Fasting capillary glucose is a useful adjunct in screening programs combined with data on age and adiposity.
Patient and computer reminders were effective methods to increase screening for diabetes. However, the effects were not additive.
An offer of health tests and patient-centred health consultations to the middle-aged population can be cost-effective and may be considered in the fight against the increasing burden of lifestyle diseases.
Use of topical intranasal corticosteroids is very unlikely to be a clinically effective treatment for OME (glue ear) in the primary care setting.
Hematuria home screening detects high-grade cancers before they become muscle invading and significantly reduces BC mortality.
Screening for microalbuminuria can be performed in the clinic by random upright single-sample urine collections. When reagent tablets were used, these results are available immediately. Patients who screen positive should be confirmed by 24-h or other timed urine collections.
Autopsy remains an effective tool for the confirmation and refutation of clinical diagnostic findings regarding malignant neoplasms.
Early detection of urine protein to slow progression of chronic kidney disease and decrease mortality is not cost-effective unless selectively directed toward high-risk groups (older persons and persons with hypertension) or conducted at an infrequent interval of 10 years.
The existing evidence from randomised controlled trials does not support the routine use of screening for prostate cancer with prostate specific antigen with or without digital rectal examination.
Less use of unwarranted interventions will likely eliminate waste and improve the overall quality of health care in the United States.
Screening effected the early detection of BC and may reduce mortality from BC compared with BC that is diagnosed at standard clinical presentation.
In a middle aged medical outpatient group of a university based, teaching clinic providing predominantly primary care, urine analysis can be restricted to patients in whom it is clinically indicated.
The present findings do not support the usefulness of general screening for neuroblastoma at one year of age.
The present study shows changes in the epidemiological features of the incidence of ESRD in Japan from 1983 to 2000.
Screening infants for neuroblastoma does not appear to reduce mortality due to this disease.
A three-fraction brachytherapy results in fewer side effects, such as bronchial fibrosis with or without stenosis, while survival and symptomatic relief are similar in the three groups treated.
These results confirm that HDR brachytherapy can be used as a monotherapy for carefully selected patients who have small tumors to all appearances limited to the bronchial lumen and bronchial wall without adjacent parenchymal extension or metastatic disease.
It is concluded that endobronchial brachytherapy in combination with external irradiation provides a good rate of response, however does not eradicate locoregional disease and does not prolong survival except for some subgroups such as younger patients.
All the symptoms and bronchial obstruction index seemed to improve after brachytherapy. However, it is difficult to predict the response before the therapy.
HDR-EB with concomitant EBRT is an effective treatment regimen for patients with both endobronchial and extrabronchial tumor. Patients with higher performance status are more likely to have resolution of disease and have longer median survival.
Monotherapy with icotinib hydrochloride is effective and tolerable for patients with advanced NSCLC, especially with EGFR mutation.
Combined Nd YAG laser and endoscopic photodynamic therapy may be an effective palliative treatment for patients with inoperable endotracheobronchial cancer.
FPNS was generally well tolerated and well accepted for the treatment of BTCP, and doses remained stable over the 4-month study period.
This non-comparative, prospective observational study showed a palliative response of HDREB in most of patients with advanced endoluminal lung cancer. The safety of the procedure was good and the rate of non-fatal serious complications was very low.
Treatment with ZOL improves elimination of DTCs. Further studies are needed to determine whether the reduction in DTCs by ZOL provides clinical benefit.
Leuprolide acetate 45 mg 6-month depot demonstrated rapid and sustained testosterone suppression through 12 months and was well tolerated. This 6-month leuprolide acetate depot will decrease the number of annual injections in the treatment of prostate cancer.
The quality of resection is better with TEMS than with TAE. However, the apparently better oncologic outcomes with TEMS can be partly explained by case selection of lower-risk tumors of the upper rectum.
The study shows similar results between the two treatments in terms of local recurrences, distant metastases, and probability of survival for rectal cancer.
Radical hysterectomy should not be attempted if either the pretreatment SCC-Ag level is above 5 ng/ml or S-phase fraction of the tumor greater than 20% due to its limited value despite applying aggressive postoperative adjuvant therapy.
adoption of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients at high risk for lymph-node positivity did not produce statistically significant results in terms of overall and disease-free survival; however, a small number of these patients, approximately 9%, could receive benefit from the treatment.
Antivirus therapy using lamivudine and thymosin alpha1 postoperatively may suppress the HBV reaction, delay the recurrent time and prolong the survival for HCC patients coexisting with chronic HBV infection with active virus replication.
Patients with preserved liver function and small-size, single-node hepatocellular carcinomas are the best candidates for hepatic resection.
Treatment with adefovir dipivoxil for up to 240 weeks was well tolerated and produced significant, increasing improvement in hepatic fibrosis, durable suppression of HBV replication, normalization of liver enzymes, and delayed development of resistance.
In a one-year study, lamivudine was associated with substantial histologic improvement in many patients with chronic hepatitis B. A daily dose of 100 mg was more effective than a daily dose of 25 mg.
In patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B, peginterferon alfa-2a offers superior efficacy over lamivudine, on the basis of HBeAg seroconversion, HBV DNA suppression, and HBsAg seroconversion.
Treatment with lamivudine for 2 years is both well tolerated and efficacious in patients with chronic hepatitis B.
HBV and HCV infections account for the majority of cirrhosis and primary liver cancer throughout most of the world, highlighting the need for programs to prevent new infections and provide medical management and treatment for those already infected.
Tumor characteristics and surgical treatment are the main factors affecting the prognosis after the recurrence of HCC. Liver transplantation plays an important role in patients with poor liver function or multi-recurrent sites.
These results showed a close correlation between multicentric hepatocarcinogenesis and sustained necroinflammation of the liver in patients with HCV-LC.
Comprehensive therapy combining TACE plus Talpha1 postoperatively could not decrease the recurrent rate, but it might delay the recurrent time and prolong survival periods for hepatocellular carcinoma patients after hepatectomy.
In our phase III trial, we found no evidence of any benefit to thymostimulin in the treatment of advanced HCC and there is therefore no justification for its use as single-agent treatment. The effect of thymostimulin on hepato-renal function requires further confirmation.
A colonic J-pouch resulted in better bowel function and more favorable ambulatory manometric findings at one year of follow-up.
Coloplasty pouches resulted in more anastomotic leaks and minimal differences in bowel function. At present, the J-pouch remains the benchmark for routine clinical practice, and due care (including defunctioning stoma) should be exercised in situations requiring CP.
The data from this study show that either a colonic J-pouch or a side-to-end anastomosis performed on the descending colon in low-anterior resection with total mesorectal excision are methods that can be used with similar expected functional and surgical results.
Colonic J-pouch and side-to-end anastomosis gives comparable functional results two years after low anterior resection. Neorectal volume had no detectable influence on function. There was a pronounced and sustained postoperative decrease in sphincter pressures.
This study shows that some aspects of defecatory function after rectal excision could improve with a colonic reservoir.
Colonic pouch-anal anastomosis restores neorectal compliance, which is important for good function after low anterior resection. Presence of an unstable internal sphincter is a negative factor for clinical function in both straight and pouch anastomoses.
The Nottingham Health Profile was effective in showing an improvement in quality of life in both groups after surgery. The observed difference in clinical bowel function was not, however, reflected in an improved quality of life score as measured by the Profile.
Reduced stool frequency after colonic J-pouch may be related to factors causing better retention of liquid stools in the distal colon. No difference in solid stool transit could possibly account for minimal evacuation problems in small pouches.
These results suggested that anastomotic leakage after curative rectal surgery is associated with the local tumor recurrence-free survival rate even after adjusting for stage.
Among the different methods of rectal reconstruction now available after total rectal resection for cancer, the colonic J-pouch may be the optimal choice.
The colonic J-pouch provided functional benefits over straight anastomosis with no increase in postoperative complications. Coloplasty appeared to have similar benefits but further studies are required for validation.
Short-course radiotherapy, including the anal sphincters, impairs anorectal function and increases gastrointestinal symptoms permanently when the anal sphincters are irradiated.
Neoadjuvant androgen ablation therapy for 12 weeks before radical prostatectomy in patients with clinically localized adenocarcinoma of the prostate does not result in improved pathological outcomes.
After 6 years of followup there was no overall benefit with 3 months of NHT. Improved bNED survival was seen in the highest risk PSA group (PSA greater than 20). The possibility that high risk patients may benefit from NHT warrants further investigation.
Although long-term follow-up of these patients is required to determine the impact on survival, the marked influence of neoadjuvant combination therapy on the stage of the disease suggests the possibility of a major improvement in the morbidity and mortality from prostate cancer.
The analysis of study 1 shows a benefit of using a short course of neoadjuvant AS with EBRT vs EBRT alone for localized T2-T3 prostate cancers. Moreover, in each study adding a short course of adjuvant AS after neoadjuvant 1 provided no more advantage in these patients.
Immediate antiandrogen therapy after radical prostatectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy improves survival and reduces the risk of recurrence in patients with node-positive prostate cancer.
Neoadjuvant hormone therapy before radical prostatectomy has some effects in the treatment of prostate cancer. However, long-term follow-up of patients is needed to assess the impact of this therapy on morbidity and mortality.
Tumor cell proliferation after 3 months of neoadjuvant hormonal treatment is a prognostic marker of failure after radical prostatectomy without correlation to Gleason score or the histopathologic regressive changes resulting from hormonal treatment.
The extension of NE differentiation in prostate cancer correlates with tumor volume and is not an independent prognostic factor of failure after radical prostatectomy.
Neuroendocrine differentiation in prostate cancer increases after 3 months of neoadjuvant hormonal treatment but does not correlate to the effects of hormonal treatment.
Radical prostatectomy combined with endocrine therapy may contribute to the survival benefit of patients with locally advanced prostate cancer. External beam radiotherapy in combination with endocrine therapy can be used in selected patients because of its low morbidity.
Adjuvant treatment with goserelin, when started simultaneously with external irradiation, improves local control and survival in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.
This study shows that complete androgen blockade before surgery is beneficial in men with clinical Stage B disease. The effects are more pronounced after 6 months of NHT than after 3 months.
Neoadjuvant androgen withdrawal with a 12-week course of 300 mg. cyproterone acetate daily results in a lower rate of positive margins without adversely affecting postoperative recovery. The impact on patient survival will be determined by long-term followup.
Endocrine therapy offers a reasonable survival rate in T1b-T3 prostate cancer patients within a 5-year follow-up. Observation will be extended to determine 10-year outcomes.
Based on this analysis, adjuvant long-term hormones compared to short-term hormones resulted in statistically significant improvements in bNED control, DMF, and CSF rates for patients with locally advanced nonmetastatic prostate cancer.
The results of the study indicate comparable efficacy (using tumor clearance as an end point) of DES and Megestrol. Although DES appears more effective in suppressing testosterone, it is also associated with a higher incidence of drug-related toxicity.
The conventional predictors of pathology at radical prostatectomy, biopsy Gleason score, PSA density and clinical stage retain significance as predictors in patients treated with a 3-month course of neoadjuvant androgen withdrawal therapy before radical prostatectomy.
Our findings suggest that this 23% incidence of false-negative biopsies represents significant cancer. This relatively high incidence is important to consider in treatment modalities in which prostate biopsy may be performed to determine response to therapy.
With now over 10 years mean follow-up for this series of patients, we conclude that adjuvant estramustine is beneficial for prostate cancer patients receiving definitive irradiation. This benefit is particularly noted in those patients with extensive nodal involvement (N+, D-1).
Neoadjuvant treatment can be beneficial for clinical stage T2 prostate cancer. Optimal treatment for stage T3 tumors remains controversial.
Contemporary cystectomy with continent diversion for muscle invasive disease provides minimal morbidity, offers good locoregional disease control and results in acceptable quality of life. The presence of positive regional lymph nodes is not a contraindication to this therapy.
Our analysis shows that adding hormonal treatment to RT improves health outcomes at a cost that is within the acceptable cost-effectiveness range.
The current analysis showed that LTAD was cost-effective for the entire population studied in RTOG trial 92-02.
Rivaroxaban offers a simple, single-drug approach to the short-term and continued treatment of venous thrombosis that may improve the benefit-to-risk profile of anticoagulation. (Funded by Bayer Schering Pharma and Ortho-McNeil; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
In patients with cancer and acute venous thromboembolism, dalteparin was more effective than an oral anticoagulant in reducing the risk of recurrent thromboembolism without increasing the risk of bleeding.
This study does not show any survival benefit from the use of neo-adjuvant BIP chemotherapy in advanced cervical cancer.
Sequential CT and RT did not improve the survival, local control, or metastasis rate compared with RT alone.
Irinotecan plus cisplatin is an effective treatment for metastatic small-cell lung cancer.
These psychometric properties demonstrate that the LCSS patient and observer scales are feasible, reliable, and valid quality of life measures that are ready for research and clinical use with lung cancer populations.
Both PS and sensitivity to initial chemotherapy were found to be significant prognostic factors for survival in recurrent SCLC patients treated with second-line chemotherapy. These 2 factors should therefore be used as stratification factors in future clinical trials.
In addition to the symptomatic experience of side effects, patients reported a considerable time burden for treatment. It is important to consider supportive care strategies that may effectively reduce side effects and their associated treatment burden.
The results of this trial suggest that the suppression of endogenous gonadotrophins by conventional doses of an LHRH agonist produces no relevant beneficial effects in patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma who receive standard surgical cytoreduction and cytotoxic chemotherapy.
In this trial, ABVD therapy for 6 to 8 months was as effective as 12 months of MOPP alternating with ABVD, and both were superior to MOPP alone in the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease. ABVD was less myelotoxic than MOPP or ABVD alternating with MOPP.
More than half of individuals diagnosed with cancer can be expected to survive for more than 5 years. These survival gains have occurred because of more complex and multimodal therapy that may increase long-term toxicities.
Despite some evidence of an effect, there is insufficient evidence at this stage to strongly recommend any of the interventions to assist in decreasing the effects of CRCD, except in terms of improving quality of life.
We demonstrated that intermittent pneumatic compression has a limited clinical role in the treatment of postmastectomy lymphedema. Efforts to prevent this complication should be undertaken.
When IPC is used adjunctively with other, established elements of DLT, it provides an enhancement of the therapeutic response. IPC is well tolerated and remarkably free of complications.
We report here the utility of TBlue for the detection of oral leukoplakia and erythroplakia. The test has the potential to detect OPMDs and yielded a sensitivity of 56.1% and specificity of 56.9% to detect oral epithelial dysplasia.
Early detection of oral carcinoma is possible even at the precancerous stages by using noninvasive, painless and outpatient procedures, such as in vivo toluidine blue staining and brush biopsy.
The study results indicate that use of ViziLite or VELscope along with a conventional screening examination for lesions deemed clinically innocuous was not beneficial in identifying dysplasia or cancer. Additional clinical studies are needed before these devices can be recommended.
Our study concurs with other investigations that show that osmolal gap can be a useful diagnostic test in conjunction with clinical history and physical examination.
The OralCDx technique overestimated dysplastic lesions and produced a high number of false-positive results.
The high sensitivity level observed for method-enhanced brush cytology suggests that this technique be used as an initial diagnostic step.
In conclusion, cytology with DNA-cytometry is a highly sensitive, specific, and non-invasive method, which can be used for periodical follow up of oral LP lesions in order to early detect or exclude malignancy.
Oral dysplasia showed a significant rate of transformation to cancer, which was related to grade and was decreased significantly but not eliminated by excision. This suggested the need for excision and continued surveillance.
Both whole and supernatant saliva of healthy controls contained dozens of miRNAs, and similar to saliva mRNAs, these miRNAs are stable. Saliva miRNAs can be used for oral cancer detection.
Routine abdominal drainage after colonic resection and immediate anastomosis decreases neither the rate nor the severity of anastomotic leakage. It can, occasionally, be detrimental.
FEC-HD induction chemotherapy followed by FEC 75 maintenance regimen had moderate and acute long-term toxicities and lead to high DFS and OS rates in patients with IBC.
Treatment with G-CSF improves endothelial function in vivo, possibly by shifting the balance between the pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines.
The effect of exercise seemed to be minimal on decreasing fatigue, improving sleep, and improving performance (aerobic capacity).
Exercise, especially sensorimotor training, is a feasible and promising method to support cancer patients during therapy. It improves patients QOL, reduces restrictions from side-effects such as PNP and improves patients' balance control, physical performance level and mobility.
This study demonstrates the potential positive effects of strength training on physical activity, fatigue, and quality of life in people receiving high-dose chemotherapy and HSCT.
These results suggest that a home-based exercise intervention during maintenance therapy encouraged greater physical activity and improved cardiovascular fitness in children with standard-risk ALL. Further investigation involving larger populations of children with ALL is warranted.
A higher volume of aerobic or combined exercise is achievable and safe during breast cancer chemotherapy and may manage declines in physical functioning and worsening symptoms better than standard volumes.
Prophylactic use of LGG significantly reduced the risk of nosocomial diarrhea in infants, particularly nosocomial rotavirus gastroenteritis.
Overall, there was a highly favourable benefit/risk ratio in favour of Antibiophilus.
Symptom distress, a measure that encompasses patient suffering along with intensity, was significantly decreased in the group in which caregivers were trained to better manage patient symptoms.
The ne of factors that influence where patients with cancer die is complicated. Future policies and clinical practice should focus on ways of empowering families and public education, as well as intensifying home care, risk assessment, and training practitioners in end of life care.
This study is the first randomized controlled study to demonstrate the effectiveness of an intervention in increasing compliance with the use of vaginal dilators.
This mode of morbidity prevention can potentially diminish the occurrence of local vaginal fibrosis and thus may improve patients' quality of life. Further investigations are needed to confirm these results.
We believe it is of use to report this case in order to invite greater interest in the oncological possibilities offered by the immunoneuroendocrine and biological-receptorial properties of the MDB treatment.
4-HPR pharmacokinetics supports once-daily dosing. Steady state concentrations of 4-HPR and 4-oxo-4-HPR in children with neuroblastoma are in line with those found to have in vitro growth inhibitory effects in neuroblastoma cells.
In children, 4HPR administration up to 4000 mg/m(2)/day over 28 days, followed by a 7-day interruption, results in manageable toxicity and in drug plasma concentrations comparable with those that induce apoptosis in neuroblastoma cell lines.
Dosing regimen and method of administration have a marked influence on 13-cisRA plasma concentrations. Body weight-based dosing should not be implemented for children less than 12 kg and pharmacologic data support higher doses for children unable to swallow 13-cisRA capsules.
Hypercalcemia is a novel dose-limiting toxicity for cis-RA. Patients receiving high doses of cis-RA should have monitoring of serum calcium levels.
We conclude that in children with ALL a 24-h infusion of DNR has the same in vivo cytotoxicity for leukemic cells as a 1-h infusion. This offers the possibility to use prolonged infusions with hopefully less cardiotoxicity without loss of efficacy.
Doxorubicin may result in arrhythmias both in early and late periods of treatment. These arrhythmias are rarely life threatening.
Doxorubicin-related CHF occurs with greater frequency and at a lower cumulative dose than previously reported. These findings further indicate that LVEF is not an accurate predictor of CHF in patients who receive doxorubicin.
The doses of chemotherapy used to treat breast cancer, especially early breast cancer, should not be reduced if the maximal benefit is to be achieved.
The present study failed to demonstrate a significant difference in DFS or OS between the two treatment groups. However, our study has shown clearly that high-dose paclitaxel can be safely incorporated to dose-dense sequential chemotherapy.
Craniopharyngioma is a rare brain tumor of uncertain behavior that occurs at a rate of 1.3 per million person years. Approximately 338 cases of this disease are expected to occur annually in the United States, with 96 occurring in children from 0 to 14 years of age.
Overall survival in childhood craniopharyngioma is excellent. However, patients treated with surgery alone have a significantly worse freedom from progression when compared to patients treated with surgery and radiation therapy or radiation therapy alone.
Our data demonstrated that the IFN-alpha was able to induce Fas-mediated apoptosis together with a reduction in the tumor size; such an observation may suggest the importance to investigate still unexplored mechanisms to be exploited in craniopharyngioma therapy.
A treatment paradigm for childhood craniopharyngioma is presented which improves the quality of outcome without compromising tumour control.
The treatment of choice in craniopharyngioma in childhood is total resection in order to avoid radiation therapy and recurrence. When total resection is not possible, subtotal resection plus radiation therapy is the alternative.
This retrospective study suggests that RT results in compatible survival with conventional surgery for patients with stage I-II cervical carcinoma.
Incidence rates of non-SCC of the uterine cervix are increasing in Norway. Improvements in diagnostic procedures may explain shifts toward lower stage and age of patients but not the observed differences between histologic subgroups.
Patients with early invasive adenocarcinoma to a depth of 3 mm or less stromal invasion, including those who meet the criteria for FIGO stage IA1, may be treated with simple extrafascial hysterectomy without lymphadenectomy and oophorectomy.
Women diagnosed with advanced stage cervical adenocarcinoma have a poor prognosis. Prospective, multicenter trials of platinum-based chemoradiation or other novel therapies are urgently needed in the treatment of this highly lethal disease.
The Finnish mass screening program has been effective and its continuation is of utmost importance. In the future more attention should be given to glandular cell atypias in cervical smears. Thus, it might be possible to decrease the incidence of cervical adenocarcinoma.
OO lipid emulsion was well tolerated, maintained essential fatty acids and peroxidation status, and generated a favorable plasma lipid profile. In this study short-term use of OO intravenous lipid emulsions was safe in children who needed PN support during BMT.
Parenteral glutamine supplementation has no effect on mucositis, fever and febrile neutropenia, length of hospitalization, red blood cell, and platelet requirements, and hematological, gastrointestinal, and hepatic toxicities in children receiving severe chemotherapy.
PN therapy is an independent risk factor for central venous catheter-related infection in nonselected hospitalized adult patients.
Nutritional support of pediatric patients with cancer differs from adults because of their unique nutritional needs, their wide age range (infants to adolescents), and the psychosocial aspects of treating the entire family.
We did not observe an increase on the analgesic effects of morphine with the association of 10 mg of S(+) ketamine PO in the treatment of oncologic pain.
Roller-coaster patterns of fatigue and activity have not been previously reported in this patient population. Examination of the inverse relationship between fatigue and activity will assist nurses in the development and testing of interventions to modify fatigue.
Nonpharmacologic interventions appear to be effective in reducing anticipatory and post-treatment nausea and vomiting.
The maximal tolerated dose of parenteral HU was 0.375 mg/m(2)/min when administered with concomitant RT. The most common toxicities were hematologic. A new trial, incorporating concurrent cisplatin, HU, and RT is planned.
The combination of TG4010 with standard chemotherapy in advanced non-small cell lung cancer is feasible and shows encouraging results. A randomized study evaluating the addition of TG4010 to first line chemotherapy in this population is in progress.
The administration of TG4010 was generally well tolerated in patients with metastatic tumors, and transient disease stabilization was observed in several patients, warranting further clinical studies with the product.
TAM administration did not affect Cp 4-HPR or 4-MPR. Reversible nyctalopia correlated with relative decrease in Cp retinol but was not symptomatic for most patients. TAM + 4-HPR has acceptable tolerability for this high-risk cohort.
A statistically significant reduction in the incidence of ER-positive breast cancer was observed in the tamoxifen arm that occurred predominantly during the post treatment follow-up, indicating long-term prevention of estrogen-dependent breast cancer by tamoxifen.
In postmenopausal women with endocrine-responsive breast cancer, adjuvant treatment with letrozole, as compared with tamoxifen, reduced the risk of recurrent disease, especially at distant sites. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Radiotherapy after local excision for DCIS, as compared with local excision alone, reduced the overall number of both invasive and non-invasive recurrences in the ipsilateral breast at a median follow-up of 4.25 years.
A 2-cm margin is as effective as a 4-cm margin in local control and survival of intermediate-thickness melanomas. The local recurrence rate is significantly affected by the thickness of the primary lesion and the presence or not of ulceration.
We recommend an excision with a margin of 2 cm for cutaneous malignant melanoma with a tumor thickness > 0.8 and < or = 2.0 mm.
The use of rhTSH for the preparation of low-risk patients to ablation therapy with low activities of (131)I (2 GBq; 54 mCi) is safe and effective and avoids hypothyroidism. The presence of thyroid remnants smaller than 1 ml at US evaluation had no effect on the ablation rate.
The use of rhTSH prior to radioiodine ablation represents good value-for-money with the benefits to patient and society obtained at modest net cost.
Our data confirm that, when the interference of iodine is minimized, rhTSH is highly effective for the treatment of post-surgical thyroid remnants using a low dose of (131)I.
From the published data, it is not possible to reliably determine whether ablation success rates using 30 mCi are similar to using 100 mCi. Large randomized trials are needed to resolve the issue and guide clinical practice.
Combined rTSH-stimulated radioiodine and Tg testing is as sensitive as thyroid hormone withdrawal to detect recurrent thyroid cancer, and causes less morbidity.
Administration of rhTSH is a safe, successful tool for inducing (131)I uptake in local and metastatic DTC lesions, and avoids L-T4 withdrawal, preserving metabolic homeostasis and preventing the debilitating effects of hypothyroidism.
Short-term hypothyroidism after L-T4 withdrawal is associated with a significant decline in quality of life that is abrogated by rhTSH use.
The risk of solid tumors, especially breast cancer, is high among women who were treated with radiation for childhood Hodgkin's disease. Systematic screening for breast cancer could be important in the health care of such women.
Women treated for Hodgkin's disease with radiation before 30 years of age are at markedly increased risk for breast cancer, with risk increasing dramatically more than 15 years after therapy.
The excess risk of lung cancer in Hodgkin's disease patients treated with radiotherapy is related to the radiation dose received by the affected area of the lung. Smokers experience a significantly greater risk attributable to radiotherapy than nonsmokers.
LSR was associated with a 15.4% reduction in major complication rates, less pain, improved quality of life, and shorter hospitalization at the cost of a longer operating time.
A significant decrease in local recurrence and a trend for improved relative survival were observed. The broad introduction of TME and the shift towards preoperative radiotherapy are the most plausible explanations for these observations.
Poor functional outcome following anterior resection was associated with a low anastomosis, SCRT or an anastomotic leak. The finding that SCRT was a predictor of postoperative incontinence emphasizes the need for stringent patient selection for this treatment modality.
Low-dose aspirin has a moderate chemopreventive effect on adenomas in the large bowel.
Daily soluble aspirin is associated with a reduction in the risk for recurrent adenomas found at colonoscopy 1 year after starting treatment.
Sulindac reduces the number and size of colorectal adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, but its effect is incomplete, and it is unlikely to replace colectomy as primary therapy.
Standard doses of sulindac did not prevent the development of adenomas in subjects with familial adenomatous polyposis.
Daily use of aspirin is associated with a significant reduction in the incidence of colorectal adenomas in patients with previous colorectal cancer.
In patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, six months of twice-daily treatment with 400 mg of celecoxib, a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, leads to a significant reduction in the number of colorectal polyps.
Long-term use of sulindac seems to be effective in reducing polyp number and preventing recurrence of higher-grade adenomas in the retained rectal segment of most FAP patients. Erosions at the IRA site can preclude adequate dose maintenance.
These results suggest that screening sigmoidoscopy can substantially reduce mortality from cancers of the rectum and distal colon.
Intervention studies in humans are necessary to elucidate the therapeutic possibilities of NSAIDs, particularly in populations at increased risk for the development of colon cancer.
The net benefit of aspirin increases with increasing cardiovascular risk. In the decision to use aspirin chemoprevention, the patient's cardiovascular risk and relative utility for the different clinical outcomes prevented or caused by aspirin use must be considered.
The beneficial and adverse effects of supplemental alpha-tocopherol and beta-carotene disappeared during postintervention follow-up. The preventive effects of alpha-tocopherol on prostate cancer require confirmation in other trials. Smokers should avoid beta-carotene supplementation.
In this large, long-term trial of male physicians, neither vitamin E nor C supplementation reduced the risk of prostate or total cancer. These data provide no support for the use of these supplements for the prevention of cancer in middle-aged and older men.
The PHS found no overall effect of beta-carotene on total cancer, or the three most common site-specific cancers. The possibility of risk reduction within specific subgroups remains.
In this trial among healthy men, 12 years of supplementation with beta carotene produced neither benefit nor harm in terms of the incidence of malignant neoplasms, cardiovascular disease, or death from all causes.
Supplementation with vitamin C, vitamin E, or beta carotene offers no overall benefits in the primary prevention of total cancer incidence or cancer mortality.
Isotretinoin treatment did not improve the overall rates of SPTs, recurrences, or mortality in stage I NSCLC. Secondary multivariate and subset analyses suggested that isotretinoin was harmful in current smokers and beneficial in never smokers.
Methylation of the RARbeta P2 promoter is one mechanism that silences RARbeta2 and RARbeta4 expression in many lung cancers, particularly SCLC. Chemical demethylation is a potential approach to lung cancer therapy.
Without potential side effects, SL on custom-set acupoints could be a complementary therapy for patients with IH regardless of central or non-central origins.
The results were promising, with the immediate disappearance of the hiccups, and the complete absence of side effects. The 36-months follow up was favorable to all the patients, who, after 6 days of treatment remain asymptomatic.
Taxanes demonstrated activity against sex cord-stromal tumors of the ovary and may be less toxic than BEP. Taxane and platinum combination chemotherapy warrants further investigation in this disease.
Our results indicate that DNA aneuploidy, large SPF, DNA content heterogeneity, and large NA and NP are adverse prognostic factors in GCT. Thus, flow cytometric and morphometric measurement may provide a rapid and valuable method to predict the biologic behavior of GCT.
Despite the small number of patients, the study showed that the less advanced stage is the only favorable prognostic factor of significance.
Radiotherapy can induce a clinical response with occasional long-term remission in patients with persistent or recurrent granulosa cell tumor of the ovary.
Hyperbaric oxygen gave no benefit in the treatment of patients with stage IIb and III carcinoma of the cervix treated with radiotherapy using two fractionation regimes. Important data regarding late radiation morbidity has been revealed.
We conclude that CLE and EBRT provide comparable levels of voice handicap for patients with T1 glottic cancer.
We conclude that endoscopic cordectomy is an efficient alternative for radiotherapy for these patients.
Extended resections performed using a tool such as 5-ALA-derived tumor fluorescence, carries the risk of temporary impairment of neurological function. However, risks are higher in patients with deficits unresponsive to steroids.
PS is an important intervention in the management of terminal disease by a consulting palliative care team. Improved collaboration and communication between the hospital staff and the PCCT should be offered to meet patients' needs when PS is required.
PS represents a highly reproducible clinical intervention with its own indications, assessment methodologies, procedures, and results. It does not have a detrimental effect on survival.
There was no association between the doses of opioids and sedatives on the last day of life and survival (from hospice admission to death) in this population of palliative care patients.
These results demonstrate that autologous immunoglobulin idiotype can be formulated into an immunogenic, tumor-specific antigen in humans with B-cell lymphoma, and they provide the background for large-scale trials of active specific immunotherapy of this disease.
Adrenalectomy for benign tumors can be performed safely. In selected children a laparoscopic procedure can be expected to decrease the surgical length of stay without increasing operating time or complications.
Laparoscopic adrenalectomy is feasible and shows positive results in select pediatric patients.
MIS is a reliable diagnostic tool for pediatric abdominal and thoracic malignancy. The role of ablative MIS in pediatric cancer remains limited.
Children with cancer require operations for diagnosis and staging. Minimal access procedures are safe and effective and allow adjuvant therapy to begin earlier.
As cases increase, surgical outcomes have improved. We think that this report showed a substantial learning curve for a complex surgery such as MIES.
We conclude that MIS in pediatric cancer patients is a safe and effective diagnostic modality. The role of MIS for primary tumor resection remains to be defined.
LRN for renal cancer in children is feasible after preoperative chemotherapy, with the same oncologic strategies as open surgery. A long follow-up and more cases are necessary to evaluate and compare the results of laparoscopic approach with the open procedures.
On the basis of the results of the present prospective randomized trial, splenectomy is not necessary in early stages of disease. A low operative mortality rate (less than 3%) must be achieved to obtain good long-term results.
Gastric cancer is now arguably one of the most understood malignancies, and real progress is being made towards eradicating this global killer. Much work still needs to be done to define the optimal approach for eradicating the causative agent, namely H. pylori infection.
Routine use of pelvic drainage is not justified and should be discouraged. In cases in which pelvic drainage is required such as in difficult operations or to prevent pelvic hematoma, pelvic drainage other than irrigation-suction should be considered.
The methodology of competing risks allowed an unequivocal description of first events in limited SCLC. The extent of the local problem has been relatively overshadowed by the use of conventional descriptive methods.
Docetaxel has considerable single-agent activity in patients with NSCLC who have relapsed or progressed after first-line chemotherapy with cisplatin-based regimens.
MGI-114, at this dose and schedule, does not have significant activity as second line therapy for patients with advanced NSCLC.
The combination of CPT-11 and cisplatin has manageable toxicity and interesting activity as salvage treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC, previously treated with a docetaxel-based front-line regimen.
The combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin is a relatively active and well-tolerated regimen as salvage treatment in patients with refractory SCLC.
Monthly docetaxel, combined with weekly gemcitabine, is an active and safe second-line therapy for NSCLC patients.
Adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy following radical surgery reduces the number of recurrences in women with Stage IB cervical cancer at the cost of 6% grade 3/4 adverse events versus 2.1% in the NFT group.
Our results suggest a possible role of surgery in limited-stage SCLC. Thus, a randomised study addressing this issue seems to be justified.
We found that the device permitted an easier dissection, resection, and anastomosis. It also helped to decrease the operation time.
Complete surgical resection is an independent prognostic parameter in locally advanced thymoma treated with a multimodal approach. Preoperative treatment to increase the complete resection rate could improve the overall survival of these patients.
A better understanding of the biology of this rare tumor may allow in the future the development of better therapies for the more aggressive tumor types (WHO type C), which appear to be increasing in frequency.
Postoperative radiotherapy can improve local control in patients with advanced thymoma. Survival after incomplete resection is not compromised when postoperative radiotherapy is employed. KPS should be considered an important prognostic factor in future studies.
In thymic carcinoma, complete resection of early Masaoka stage lesions is the most important factor for disease control and long-term survival of patients.
The multimodality treatment of stage III and IVA thymic tumors allows a good long-term outcome; the neoadjuvant chemotherapy improves the resectability rate and the survival of both stages of the disease.
Aggressive multimodal treatment is highly effective and may cure locally advanced, unresectable malignant thymoma.
Multimodality treatment with induction chemotherapy (when required) and adjuvant chemoradiotherapy offers encouraging results for stage III thymic tumors; the outcome is more favorable for cortical thymoma and well-differentiated thymic carcinoma.
Complete surgical resection is taken to be the desired treatment, but the continued high mortality and relapse rates and the variable benefit of adjuvant therapies challenge this strategy.
The grade, stage, and resectability of the tumor are decisive factors of the effectiveness of either surgery or chemo/radiotherapies in the treatment of thymic carcinoma.
Platinum-based chemotherapy with or without thoracic radiation is, regardless of tumor histology, marginally effective in advanced thymic carcinoma patients, giving only a modest tumor response rate and short response duration and survival.
This form of chemotherapy merits additional study in such patients, and our experience indicates that at least some will have clinically meaningful responses. The optimum regimen is unclear, but would contain cisplatin and probably should be similar to that used in germ cell tumors.
Resectability was the only prognostic factor in thymic carcinoma. We suggest the importance of preoperative precise evaluation to exclude unresectable Masaoka stage IVb disease and expect preoperative chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy to improve the respectability.
Overall, HPV(+) RT-alone stage IV demonstrated lower survival but comparable disease control vs. CRT, but no difference was apparent among minimal smokers.
HPV and EGFR are independent prognostic markers in oropharyngeal SCC. Combining testing for HPV and EGFR appears to provide additional prognostic information.
Caution must be exercised in applying HPV16 diagnostic tests because of significant disparities in accuracy and prognostic value in previously published techniques.
Fellows who underwent GI Mentor training performed significantly better during the early phase of real colonoscopy training.
The computer-based simulator is effective in providing novice trainees with the skills needed for identification of anatomical landmarks and basic endoscopic maneuvers, and in reducing the need for assistance by instructors.
The use of a state-of-the-art virtual reality-based endoscopy simulator is inferior to traditional bedside teaching techniques when used exclusively for training medical residents to perform sigmoidoscopy.
The performance of endoscopy was improved by 5 h of simulator training. The simulator was more effective with regard to the items related to manipulation skills. Computer-based simulator training in EGD is useful for beginners.
This study shows the value of virtual reality simulator training for accelerating the development of the hand-eye skills to perform adequate sigmoidoscopy.
While research in this field needs improvement in terms of rigor and quality, high-fidelity medical simulations are educationally effective and simulation-based education complements medical education in patient care settings.
Fellow involvement prolonged procedure time by 10-37%. Thus, per-hour reimbursement is reduced at teaching institutions, causing financial strain related to these time commitments.
While there may be compelling reasons to reduce reliance on patients, cadavers, and animals for surgical training, none of the methods of simulated training has yet been shown to be better than other forms of surgical training.
Across specialties, patient simulation, virtual reality, and the Web will soon enable medical students and residents to... see one, simulate many, do one competently, and teach everyone.
Not all feedback conditions seem equally effective. The use of terminal feedback resulted in better learning as demonstrated by superior performance during transfer.
The endodermal sinus tumor of the ovary stands first in the incidence of malignant germ cell tumors of the ovary in China. To improve the prognosis of advanced malignant germ cell tumor of the ovary, BEP regimen is the most effective at present.
Women with a history of cervical treatment for CIN are at increased risk of subfertility, measured as a time to pregnancy of more than 12 months.
This conservative cold-knife section technique is effective for treatment of CIN with low morbidity and little adverse effect on childbearing potential. Exposure of the squamocolumnar junction (SCJ) greatly facilitates follow-up.
Conisation affects obstetrical outcome after conisation for CIN. Babies tend to be born earlier and are smaller. It is not clear whether this is related to the procedure or to factors linked with CIN.
Diagnosis of precancerous changes in the cervix (regardless of the treatment) was associated with an increased risk of preterm birth. Consideration should be given to the preferential use of ablative treatments.
Women previously treated for CIN3 are at increased risk of developing and dying from cervical or vaginal cancer, compared with the general female population. The risk accelerates above age 60 years, suggesting a need for lifelong surveillance of these women.
An approach using aetiology-based guidelines in the management of N&V is moderately effective, although there are some patients with N&V refractory to standard antiemetic regimens.
NPs had positive attitudes toward teaching TSE and were engaged in such teaching. They perceived that other NPs, physicians, and patients also value TSE teaching. The theoretical model was supported.
The implementation intentions intervention procedure, which encourages the use of environmental and contextual 'cues' to prompt a desired behaviour, appears to offer a promising strategy for encouraging the performance of TSE.
Prepubertal orchiopexy may decrease the risk of testicular cancer. Thus, early surgical intervention is indicated in children with cryptorchidism. These findings suggest that the testicular environment, as well as underlying genetics, may have a role in testicular carcinogenesis.
Clinical trials have led to evidence-based treatment recommendations for advanced testicular cancer based on risk stratification. Clinicians should be familiar with the potential complications of these therapies.
Our findings support a relationship between subfertility and increased risk of testicular cancer and apply to the management of men with subfertility, and prevention and diagnosis of testicular cancer.
A paracervical block is effective in reducing the cramping from cryosurgery.
SCR followed by chemotherapy gives a clear survival benefit compared with chemotherapy and should be offered when the tumour is localised. The combination of COC, TFI >24 months and age </=39 years identifies a group of patients with the best OS.
Complete secondary cytoreduction is the strongest survival determinant in recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer, whereas patients with residual disease of 0.1-1 cm may also benefit from secondary cytoreduction.
Size of disease implants on preoperative imaging may guide the selection of candidates for TCS. In those patients with limited disease implants at laparotomy, optimal TCS is associated with improved survival.
GC arm did not provide a significant difference in response rate compared with GP arm, with better overall tolerability. Carboplatin could be a valid alternative to cisplatin in the palliative setting.
3G agents have been a significant advance in the treatment of NSCLC.
The addition of bevacizumab to paclitaxel plus carboplatin in the treatment of selected patients with non-small-cell lung cancer has a significant survival benefit with the risk of increased treatment-related deaths. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The LACE trial will establish the equivalence of a TLH approach for patients with stage 1 endometrial cancer following a two stage protocol to accommodate potential threats to patient recruitment through requests for laparoscopic surgery.
The survival outcome and recurrence rate after laparoscopic surgery for endometrial carcinoma were similar to those in the laparotomy procedures. However, the complication rate was lower after laparoscopy compared with laparotomy.
Most obese women with early stage endometrial cancer can be safely managed through laparoscopy with excellent surgical outcome, shorter hospitalization, and less postoperative pain than those managed through laparotomy.
The incidence of port-site metastasis in early-stage endometrial cancer treated by TLH is low. Laparoscopic management does not seem to worsen the prognosis of patients with endometrial cancer.
In these preliminary results, CST and GE were more similar than different across multiple measure of psychosocial adaptation, although CST showed promising statistical trends for more adaptive family functioning and greater life satisfaction. Longer term follow-up is underway.
Well-designed, supported technology holds promise for enhancing psychological interventions.
Although parents were very positive about the effectiveness of the program, the results for children's self-ratings do not support the use of this highly abbreviated treatment method.
The cognitive-behavioral family intervention reduced the frequency of pain crises of children with nonorganic RAP. This successful intervention was carried out by the intervention of general pediatricians.
Intensive, home-based psychotherapy improves the frequency of blood glucose testing and metabolic control and decreases inpatient admissions among adolescents with chronically poorly controlled type 1 diabetes.
Hypnotherapeutic and behavioral interventions are effective in treating children with long-standing AP. Treatment success of this brief program should be further evaluated against active interventions with a longer follow-up.
Distance methods have considerable potential for making effective treatments more accessible with lower associated costs.
Although the clinical evaluation of the intervention was positive, it appeared that a structured intervention program as described in this study was not any more effective than standard care.
An intervention aimed at reducing protective parental responses and increasing child coping skills is effective in reducing children's pain and symptom levels compared with an educational control condition.
Primary caregivers with lower levels of perceived social support may benefit from preemptive stress management intervention.
It is suggested that VPE is a cost effective and less time consuming method for supporting dermatological therapy of AE in children.
These results, in combination with previous studies, add support to the effectiveness of CBT intervention in reducing the sensory aspects of RAP. Results are discussed with respect to the cost-benefit of integrated medical and short-term psychological services.
In this sample of vulnerable families of children with persistent asthma, a CC + PST intervention was efficacious in improving children's generic HRQOL.
BI is effective in increasing calcium intake and BMC in children with JRA over a 12-month period.
Behavioral intervention can have a positive impact on increasing dietary Ca intake. Future research will need to evaluate the maintenance of gains in dietary Ca intake following treatment cessation and the impact of increased Ca intake on bone mineral density.
There are many challenges inherent in conducting a RCT shortly after cancer diagnosis. Consideration of alternative research designs and optimal timing for interventions are essential next steps.
Findings suggest that TOPS may be effective in improving problem solving skills and reducing depressive symptoms for certain subsets of caregivers in families of adolescents with TBI.
BFST yielded lasting improvement in parent-adolescent relationships and delayed improvement in treatment adherence, but it had no effect on adjustment to diabetes or diabetic control. A variety of adaptations to BFST could enhance its impact on diabetes outcomes.
BFST yielded some improvement in parent-adolescent relationships; its effects on diabetes outcomes depended on the adolescent's age and gender. Factors mediating the effectiveness of BFST must be clarified.
These results support the efficacy of BFST-D in improving A1C, but further research is needed to identify the mechanisms of this effect and to achieve cost-effective dissemination of the intervention.
The revised intervention (BFST-D) improved family conflict and treatment adherence significantly, while both ES and BFST-D reduced HbA1c significantly, particularly among adolescents with poor metabolic control. Clinical translation of BFST-D requires further study.
According to the impact of this model on quality of life in thalassemic children, it is recommended that evaluating the effectiveness of this model should be considered in further studies of other ages and other chronic diseases.
This RCT provides compelling evidence for organizing cognitive and physical interventions and supports for children with TBI around the everyday routines of their lives, with intensive supports for their families.
A combination of self-management and relaxation-breathing training can reduce anxiety, thus improving asthmatic children's health. These results can serve as an evidence base for psychological nursing practice with asthmatic children.
The study demonstrates the value of intensive behavioral interventions for high-risk youth with diabetes for reducing one of the most serious consequences of medication noncompliance.
We demonstrated that an individually tailored, multifaceted intervention carried out by Masters-level social workers trained in asthma management can reduce asthma symptoms among children in the inner city.
This study provides support for illness adjustment and coping models that emphasize the role of parent factors in driving child adjustment outcomes and is encouraging for future parent-focused intervention research.
A telephone coaching program can improve parental QOL and can be implemented without additional physician training or practice redesign.
Relaxation techniques may be useful for those people caring for chronically ill children.
A family support intervention can have beneficial effects on the mental health status of mothers of children with chronic illnesses. This type of intervention can be implemented in diverse pediatric settings.
The pilot data are supportive of the value and challenges of developing evidence-based family interventions in pediatric psychology.
Advance care planning enabled families to understand and honor their adolescents' wishes. Intervention dyads were more likely than controls to limit treatments. Underserved African American families were willing to participate.
Findings suggest that TOPS may be effective in improving EF skills among teens with severe TBI.
This study examined the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary intervention for undertreated asthma. The intervention did not result in improvements in asthma symptoms, but accomplished modest reductions in the utilization of acute medical care.
Evidence suggests that family interventions in family or household members of people with diabetes may be effective in improving diabetes-related knowledge and glycaemic control.
IBS is a common disorder in children and adolescents. IBS is closely associated with somatic and familial factors. Trimebutine maleate is effective for pediatric IBS patients.
For some pediatric recurrent pain sufferers, family characteristics associate with the extent of pain-related disability and may help identify children likely to experience more impaired functioning in response to recurrent pain.
Psychological interventions in pediatric oncology show promise in decreasing distress and improving the adjustment of parents of children with cancer but may have minimal effects for child outcomes. Methodological issues of intervention research are discussed.
Prevalence of chronic conditions among children and youth increased from 1988 to 2006. However, presence of these conditions was dynamic over each 6-year cohort.
Our findings on the basis of psychological papers suggest that statistical results are particularly hard to verify when reanalysis is more likely to lead to contrasting conclusions. This highlights the importance of establishing mandatory data archiving policies.
Treatment with either paclitaxel or PLD appears to produce significant improvements in pain and swelling in patients with advanced, symptomatic, HIV-associated KS treated in the HAART era.
Docetaxel has a good and rapid efficacy in anthracycline-pretreated patients with severe AIDS-related KS. Phase II/III trials should be done to compare docetaxel with liposomal anthracyclines as a first-line treatment.
The results of this study provide convincing evidence of the superiority of alitretinoin gel over vehicle gel for the treatment of the cutaneous lesions of AIDS-related KS.
AIDS-KS tumor responses after ART initiation were limited. Pretreatment plasma HHV-8 DNA level may be a surrogate for KS disease that is in need of intensive clinical management.
Alitretinoin gel has significant antitumor activity as a topical treatment for AIDS-related KS lesions, substantially reduces the incidence of disease progression in treated lesions, and is generally well tolerated.
Low-dose ABV is an effective chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of extensive Kaposi's sarcoma. ABV chemotherapy is associated with significantly higher responses than Adriamycin alone and with acceptable toxicity.
Radiotherapy is a quick and effective treatment for cutaneous epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma. A single fraction of 8 Gy is an appropriate treatment for acceptable response and normal skin pigmentation within a group of patients in whom the median life expectancy is limited.
Bleomycin alone is not a good starting agent for EKS, whereas ABV seems to be a good choice, because it can produce an acceptable palliation of advanced EKS without major toxicity.
Zidovudine was well tolerated and had antiretroviral activity in patients with early HIV infection and Kaposi sarcoma but it had no significant effect on the extent of Kaposi sarcoma or on immune function.
In HIV patients with Kaposi sarcoma, high activity antiretroviral therapy, associated or not to chemotherapy, induces complete remission in 46% of patients and partial remission in 16%.
Weekly docetaxel is safe, with reasonable antitumor activity in patients with advanced-stage, recurrent, or refractory AIDS-related KS.
Liposomal daunorubicin is a well tolerated and efficacious treatment for early KS; however, the duration of response is brief.
The results show that alitretinoin gel application is safe and generally well tolerated, and they indicate the superiority of alitretinoin 0.1% gel over vehicle gel in the treatment of cutaneous AIDS-related KS lesions.
Spindle cells of Kaposi's sarcoma, which have been regarded as the tumor cells of this cancer, contain v-cyclin D mRNA. Expression of v-cyclin D protein may be involved in the pathogenesis of Kaposi's sarcoma by promoting cell proliferation.
Dramatic declines in KS and NHL were temporally related to improving therapies, especially introduction of HAART, but those with AIDS remain at marked risk. Among non-AIDS-related cancers, a recent increase in Hodgkin lymphoma was observed.
Population-based incidence rates of AIDS related KS and NHL have decreased since the widespread use of potent anti-retroviral therapies in Australia. NHL incidence decreased less than KS, and NHL is now the most common AIDS-associated cancer in Australia.
Doxorubicin/paclitaxel-->CMF is feasible, safe, and well tolerated. Given as PST, it is markedly active, allowing for breast-sparing surgery in a large fraction of patients.
Sequential TLI/chemotherapy conditioning for relapsed/refractory HL is safe and associated with excellent long-term survival rates.
GVD is a well-tolerated, active regimen for relapsed HL with results similar to those reported for more toxic regimens. High RRs in patients in whom prior transplant failed confirms this regimen's activity even in heavily pretreated patients.
After 6 months of GnRH-A therapy in these patients, DHT and T levels did not return to normal for a median of 14.9 and 16.6 weeks, respectively.
Intermittent androgen suppression is a feasible alternative to continuous androgen suppression for treatment of prostate cancer, and quality of life is improved while off treatment.
The present data suggest that long-term and continuous CAB offers the possibility of long-term control or possible cure of localized prostate cancer.
Endorectal coil MR imaging is a powerful means of evaluating the prostate gland; however, further improvements in imaging and/or volume calculation are required to provide a more accurate preoperative assessment of prostate cancer volume.
Irinotecan has activity in the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Strict adherence to an antidiarrheal regimen of diphenhydramine/loperamide significantly reduced the incidence of diarrhea; the agent was thereafter well tolerated in the majority of patients.
FOLFIRI regimen is effective and well-tolerated as first-line treatment in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Further studies needed to evaluate the improvement in results with the addition of new drugs to this combination therapy.
Our findings show a significant increase in the incidence of clinically evident BO. Although changes in endoscopic practice may partly explain these findings, a true increase in the incidence of BO seems likely.
Multimodal treatment is superior to surgery alone for patients with resectable adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.
Defibrotide appears to be an effective and relatively safe treatment for children with HVOD.
The 2014 guideline has been updated by a multidisciplinary panel using the highest methodological standards, and provides the best and most reliable contemporary evidence base for RCC management.
Levels of immune cells expressing PD-1 were increased in patients with high-risk RCC tumors. Interactions between immune cell PD-1 and B7-H1 may promote cancer progression by contributing to immune dysfunction in patients with RCC.
Buprenorphine TDS was shown to be an effective analgesic against chronic, severe pain in this study population. Patients treated with this new formulation of buprenorphine showed improved duration of sleep and reduced need for additional oral analgesics.
In the population studied, buprenorphine TDS provided adequate pain relief, as well as improvements in pain intensity and duration of pain-free sleep. It may be considered a therapeutic option for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic pain.
Our data confirm a ceiling effect of buprenorphine but not fentanyl with respect to respiratory depression.
While buprenorphine's analgesic effect increased significantly, respiratory depression was similar in magnitude and timing for the two doses tested. We conclude that over the dose range tested buprenorphine displays ceiling in respiratory effect but none in analgesic effect.
The use of slow release oral morphine probably remains the preferred approach for these patients, with the use of transdermal opioids to be reserved for selected patients.
Topical application of natural honey is a simple and cost-effective treatment in radiation mucositis, which warrants further multi-centre randomised trials to validate our finding.
The used amifostine doses were not able to reduce the toxicity of simultaneous radiochemotherapy for head-and-neck cancer. The safety of amifostine and the lack of tumor protection were consistent with previous studies.
Amifostine reduces the RCT-induced toxicities in patients with head and neck cancer and has no negative impact on antitumour efficacy.
Prophylactic treatment with sucralfate during high-dose head and neck RT did not decrease acute treatment side effects. Other modalities should be investigated.
The IP test may be a useful tool in the evaluation of mucositis/stomatitis. OGS may exert a protective effect on FU/LV-induced mucositis/stomatitis. Further studies, however, will be necessary to define the role of glutamine supplementation in FU/LV-induced mucositis/stomatitis.
This study does not support the hypothesis that oral glutamine may offer benefit. Further investigation is required regarding clinical tools for determining effectiveness, administration for tolerance and compliance, dosage, and potential of oral glutamine usage.
Because chlorhexidine (S20 per pint) was no more effective than water, a substantial cost savings can be realized by rinsing with water. Interestingly, the PSMA program appeared to reduce the incidence of mucositis from on a prior estimate of 44% to less than 26%.
This study highlights the benefits of combining the EORTC QLQ-30 with an "oral" TSC in a randomized controlled trial and provides valuable baseline data for their use with an objective mucositis scoring system.
Benzydamine oral rinse was effective, safe, and well tolerated for prophylactic treatment of radiation-induced oral mucositis.
Zinc sulfate is beneficial in decreasing the severity of radiation-induced mucositis and oral discomfort. These results should be confirmed by additional evaluation in randomized studies with a larger number of patients.
Repifermin was well tolerated. Repifermin given before and after auto-HSCT seems to be active in reducing mucositis, but a larger trial will be necessary to determine the efficacy of repifermin with this dose schedule.
Oral glutamine may significantly reduce the duration and severity of objective oral mucositis during radiotherapy. It may shorten the duration of > or = Grade 3 subjective mucositis.
The gained results indicate that incidence, severity and duration of radiochemotherapy-induced mucositis can be significantly reduced by oral rinsing with povidone-iodine performed additionally to the standard prophylaxis scheme.
Palifermin reduced the duration and severity of oral mucositis after intensive chemotherapy and radiotherapy for hematologic cancers.
Selective elimination of AGNB of the oral flora did not result in a reduction of radiation-induced mucositis and therefore does not support the hypothesis that these bacteria play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of mucositis.
The EGF oral spray may have potential benefit for oral mucositis in patients undergoing RT for head and neck cancer. Phase 3 studies are ongoing to confirm these results.
Helium-neon laser treatment was well-tolerated and reduced the severity of conditioning-induced oral mucositis in BMT patients.
Accelerated infusional ECF with limited G-CSF support is a feasible and well-tolerated regimen with rapid haematological recovery. A 50% increase in relative dose intensity of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide is achieved, while overall treatment time is reduced by 33%.
Within the limitations of the small sample size, this study suggests that the use of the tested mouth-rinse may lead to some improvements in clinical parameters in patients irradiated for head-and-neck cancer.
We showed that amifostine can exert some protection from the cumulative toxicity associated with this regimen. The results need to be confirmed in other randomized trials with this combination.
According to the results observed, the conclusion is drawn that the professional and home oral hygiene and the use of clorexidine, can reduce the incidence of oral mucositis as a side effect of antineoplastic chemotherapy.
In severe mucositis, GM-CSF is more effective than conventional treatment.
Prior control of sources causing oral infection and irritation effectively prevents complications during non-surgical cancer therapy.
These findings are desired when dealing with oncologic patients under RT avoiding unplanned radiation treatment breaks and additional hospital costs.
Saforis is safe and effective for preventing and treating OM in patients receiving mucotoxic cancer chemotherapy.
Actovegin is effective in the prevention and treatment of chemoradiotherapy-induced oral mucositis.
Understanding the pathobiology of mucositis, its incidence, and scoring are essential for progress in research and care directed at this common side-effect of anticancer therapies.
Use of a transparent hood on the tip of a colonoscope shortened the time required for cecal intubation and decreased patient discomfort; such use was more effective among experts in shortening the examination time.
Colonoscopy with a TRE device improved the adenoma detection rate without affecting intubation and withdrawal times.
The transparent hood was useful in shortening the cecal intubation time especially in difficult cases.
Total colonoscopy with a transparent cap allows inspection of the blind area of the colonic mucosa behind the semilunar folds, with good visual fields. This method is potentially useful for both screening and diagnostic purposes.
Transparent hood may be a handy and a cost-effective device for reducing pain and simplifying cecal intubation, especially when using a standard adult colonoscope in routine colonoscopy.
Among persons undergoing resection for right-sided colon cancer, the miss rate of colonoscopy for detecting cancer in usual clinical practice was 4.0%.
The use of the WA colonoscope was associated with a reduction in insertion time to the cecum, as well as examination time during withdrawal. No evidence was found that the accuracy of the two colonoscopes differs.
Colonoscopic surveillance should be strongly considered in chronic extensive Crohn's colitis.
De novo cancers account for a considerable proportion in Japan. This information suggests that the recommended interval for colonoscopic examination in Japan should be shorter than that in the United States.
CAC can be used as a rescue method to improve the success rate of colonoscopy when failure is encountered.
Colonoscopic screening can detect advanced colonic neoplasms in asymptomatic adults. Many of these neoplasms would not be detected with sigmoidoscopy.
Our analysis shows that colorectal mini-de novo carcinoma is not a purely Japanese phenomenon, and that these carcinomas are being diagnosed with increasing frequency as the awareness of their existence and macroscopic growth characteristics increases.
More than one-half of all women in this study would have received less than 60% of the prescribed radiation dose because their inguinal lymph nodes were deeper than 5 cm, if the depth of their inguinal lymph nodes had not been measured before therapy.
HPC and TMX are two drugs proved to be useful in endometrial carcinoma. AG also can be used to treat endometrial carcinoma. It adds a new drug to the drug therapy for endometrial carcinoma.
Further investigation is warranted to verify these preliminary response rates and the clinical significance of the stable disease cases, to compare clinical outcomes with those in progestin-treated women, and to elucidate the mechanisms of SERM action in this disease.
Anastrozole has minimal activity in an unselected population of patients with recurrent endometrial cancer.
While several treatment modalities are now available to treat patients who present with metastatic endometrial cancer, overall prognosis remains poor.
The critical factors contributing to shoulder dysfunction after neck dissection were weight, radiation therapy, and neck dissection type.
Our findings suggest that physical activity is unlikely to play an important role in the prevention of head and neck cancer.
Occupational therapy significantly improves shoulder range of motion in patients with accessory nerve palsy after radical neck dissection, but it has limited effects on the associated pain.
Shoulder morbidity is often present after non-surgical treatment of the neck, but to a lesser extent compared to surgical treatment. Radiotherapy adds no morbidity to neck dissection and chemotherapy does not add extra morbidity to primary radiation.
Thalidomide confers therapeutic benefit in subsets of thyroid cancer patients with rapidly progressive, distantly metastatic disease.
Although gefitinib therapy did not result in any tumor responses, 32% of patients had reductions in tumor volume that did not meet criteria for partial response rate. Along with falling Tg levels and prolonged SD in a subset of patients, this may indicate biologic activity.
Motesanib diphosphate can induce partial responses in patients with advanced or metastatic differentiated thyroid cancer that is progressive. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The identification and consideration of factors associated with recurrence and malignant progression may help guide treatment strategies aimed at delaying recurrence and preventing malignant degeneration for patients with hemispheric low-grade gliomas.
The data strongly support the role of a surgical removal as extensive as possible in the treatment of these tumours.
The authors demonstrate that hESCs injected into the amniotic cavity at 24 hours after ONTD induction enhance reclosure ability in chick embryos.
Our finding indicated that biannual screening reduced HCC mortality by 37%.
The majority of respondents routinely screen patients with cirrhosis for HCC. Approximately half of the screening respondents limit their screening to only patients with high-risk etiologies. On multivariate analysis, several variables predicted screening for HCC by the respondents.
Chronic HBV infection is associated with significant preventable excess mortality risk. This mortality risk is correlated strongly with the level of viral replication among other factors.
Timing of surgery does not have an important effect on the prognosis of breast cancer patients. Incorporating other results from the literature, we conclude that it has at most a weak effect.
With increased lifespan, there will be more breast cancer cases in women older than 65 years; we have shown that women in this group have more non-breast cancer deaths. It becomes important, then, to delineate differential effects of prognostic factors on competing causes of death.
Our results support the hypothesis that the risk for recurrence may be affected by the hormonal milieu of the menstrual cycle; these findings must be confirmed, however, by a prospective study in which cycle phase at time of tumor excision is biochemically documented.
Overall, use of statins did not appear to be associated with reduced risk of colorectal cancer. The reduced risk of stage IV cancer observed among statin users requires confirmation.
Statins are among the most commonly used medications, and durations of use are increasing. The present data do not support either positive or negative associations between statin use and the occurrence of 10 cancer types. Cancer incidence should continue to be monitored among statin users.
Patients using statins may be at lower risk for developing cancer. Additional observational studies and randomized trials of statins for cancer prevention are warranted.
In this trial of apparently healthy persons without hyperlipidemia but with elevated high-sensitivity C-reactive protein levels, rosuvastatin significantly reduced the incidence of major cardiovascular events. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
These data from a large population of typical older patients who began using statins indicate that it is unlikely that statins confer a clinically important decrease or increase in the risk of colorectal, lung, or breast cancer over the durations studied.
In this large population-based case-control study prolonged use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor was associated with a reduced colorectal cancer risk, but prolonged statin use was not.
Chemoradiation is an effective primary treatment for vulvar carcinoma as shown by these successfully managed cases.
This combination of chemoradiation was found to be effective therapy for locally advanced vulvar carcinoma, with acceptable morbidity even in an elderly population. Surgical excision of the primary site is not necessary in patients with complete response.
Chemoradiotherapy seems to be effective for squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. If treatment-related morbidity could be decreased, such a combined approach might offer a new perspectives for a conservative treatment of locally advanced vulvar cancer.
Vulvar cancer is diagnosed at early stages. Late-stage disease is associated with a significant increase in mortality. Radical surgery was still commonly performed in 1999. Radiation was more common in women diagnosed at late stage, while the use of chemoradiation remained limited.
Intensive follow-up after curative resection of colorectal cancer improved overall survival and reresection rate for recurrent disease. However, the cancer-related mortality was not improved and the survival benefit was not related to earlier detection and treatment of recurrent disease.
Exemestane therapy after two to three years of tamoxifen therapy significantly improved disease-free survival as compared with the standard five years of tamoxifen treatment.
As compared with placebo, letrozole therapy after the completion of standard tamoxifen treatment significantly improves disease-free survival.
Analysis of outcomes with appropriate feedback and education is a powerful tool for quality improvement. We observed improvements in rates of cytoreduction and use of specific radical procedures, with no increase in morbidity as a result of this process.
The need for splenectomy to achieve complete cytoreduction is a reflection of advanced disease but is not a manifestation of tumor biology precluding long-term survival.
Our findings suggest that patient participation in a head and neck cancer support group is associated with improved QOL.
The intervention significantly increased screening mammography. Future efforts must be multifaceted and incorporate the unique concerns of older women.
Medical assistant telephone callers are a cost-effective strategy to encourage mammography adherence. Widows appear particularly resistant to all screening mammography interventions.
Patient reminder letters had limited impact on visitation in this setting. Physician reminders are more effective but sites vary in their responsiveness. Further improvement in mammography utilization will require a better understanding of the determinants of patient and physician behavior.
Both community participation and family practitioner involvement are more promising strategies for the promotion of attendance at mammographic screening facilities than media promotion alone.
Women with a family history of breast cancer are more likely to obtain a mammogram if that fact is reinforced as a risk factor. Research on environmental barriers to mammography screening may suggest alternative strategies for increasing participation.
These results indicate that a multicomponent phone intervention is significantly effective in promoting mammography in managed health care plan members. An analysis by women's stage of change found a difference in the effectiveness of the three interventions among contemplators only.
Tailoring invitation letters does not have a significant effect on uptake rates for breast screening and does not justify the additional workload required.
Asking women to attend for an investigation in addition to the routine screening procedure for breast cancer did not affect the overall response to screening.
Stage-matched, tailored materials may be a means to encourage screening mammography. Such interventions can be implemented by telephone and mail.
Tailored messages are a more effective medium for physicians' mammography recommendations; tailoring may be especially important for women of low socioeconomic status.
Vouchers, even when distributed randomly within a population of rural Midwestern women, can significantly improve compliance rates. Vouchers are no less effective a means of increasing screening among vulnerable women than among other women.
When preceded by written recommendations to schedule mammograms, reminder postcards effectively increased participation. Future randomized trials to promote use of screening mammography should compare interventions with a reminder condition.
The inclusion of a GP letter appeared to be effective and feasible in increasing the attendance rate to the second invitation. This intervention should be tested in other screening groups to confirm the effectiveness of a GP letter and its cost effectiveness.
Cancer screening activities increase with interventions that target either the physician or the patient and, when physicians are targeted, multiple interventions to serve as behavior cues and increase awareness appear optimal.
Patient reminders are effective at increasing mammography screening. More research is needed to assess (1) the cost-effectiveness of patient reminders and (2) their effectiveness across race, education, income, and type of insurance.
We recommend that surveillance of patients who have received local ablative therapy for CIN should be by both cytology and colposcopy, and that cytological samples should be obtained using the Ayre's spatula.
We conclude that the cure rate in stage III SNCCL is significantly improved with the use of a short, six-month chemotherapy regimen of fractionated CTX alternated with coordinated MTX and Ara-C. Results suggest that drug schedule, not simple drug selection, influences outcome.
2-CdA is an active, well-tolerated therapy for patients with untreated, indolent NHL.
--Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance may be associated with durable remissions in AIDS-related lymphoma with fewer opportunistic infections than noted in prior reports.
This modified NHL-BFM-90 protocol is very effective for Chinese children and adolescents with BKL and large cell lymphomas, and represented an increase in the cure rates in childhood NHL in China.
Although both regimens effectively treated those patients with favorable prognostic factors, neither was satisfactory for treating those with poor prognostic factors.
All four preparations reviewed provided effective bowel cleansing for colonoscopy in the majority of patients, with varying tolerability. Adequate hydration is essential in patients receiving the preparations.
Despite the differences in bowel cleansing protocols used at each hospital (including an additional laxative), PSMC consistently yielded a high percentage of positive ratings for efficacy.
In children with FN, SMC were rare, and mortality was very low. Those with SMC often had a delayed onset and biphasic clinical course with secondary deterioration.
In hospitalized low-risk patients who have fever and neutropenia during cancer chemotherapy, empirical therapy with oral ciprofloxacin and amoxicillin-clavulanate is safe and effective.
Outpatient therapy is efficacious and safe in pediatric LRFN. There was no difference in outcome in oral versus IV outpatient therapy. Amoxycillin-clavulanate and ofloxacin may be the oral regimen of choice.
Outpatient oral antibiotic therapy with oral ofloxacin for patients with low risk neutropenia and fever is safe and similar in efficacy to hospitalization and treatment with broad-spectrum parenteral antibiotics.
In low-risk patients with cancer who have fever and granulocytopenia, oral therapy with ciprofloxacin plus amoxicillin-clavulanate is as effective as intravenous therapy.
Carefully selected low risk children with fever and neutropenia can be treated safely as outpatients. Close daily medical scrutiny is required.
Outpatient treatment of low-risk episodes of fever and neutropenia is substantially less costly than inpatient care and is preferred by most families.
This prospective study suggested that treatment with oral antibiotics ciplofloxacin plus amoxicillin-clavulanate was effective for low-risk febrile neutropenic patients after chemotherapy.
Outpatient therapy with either oral ciprofloxacin or intravenous ceftriaxone for fever and neutropenia is effective and safe in pediatric patients with solid tumors and stage I/II non-Hodgkin lymphoma (low-risk patients).
This prospective study suggested that outpatient antibiotic therapy for febrile episodes in low-risk neutropenic patients with cancer is safe and effective. Better oral regimens are needed.
These results suggest that MASCC is a valid and useful tool to select patients for ambulatory treatments and that oral moxifloxacin monotherapy is safe and effective for the outpatient treatment of cancer patients with low-risk neutropenic fever.
The results of the current study demonstrated that moxifloxacin was a highly effective and safe regimen in the outpatient treatment of cancer patients with febrile neutropenia.
Rapid step-down to oral antibiotics was a feasible and safe management strategy for LR FN in the shared care setting in England.
Outpatient management of low-risk neutropenic febrile patients with ofloxacin is as effective as inpatient management with the same agent. This approach should be limited to the subset of patients with low-risk factors who are not otherwise on quinolone prophylaxis.
The results from this study indicated that outpatient quinolone monotherapy in low-risk febrile neutropenic patients is safe, effective, and well received. These conclusions need to be validated in a randomized trial.
Oral outpatient quinolone monotherapy for low-risk febrile neutropenic patients appears feasible and needs to be formally evaluated in large randomized clinical trials.
Oral antibiotics may be safely offered to neutropenic patients with fever who are at low risk for mortality.
We can conclude that combined surgical therapy is, nowadays, the choice treatment for this kind of patients, even though restricted to selected cases. The knowledge of prognostic factors may optimize indications for surgery.
Radiosurgery alone can result in local tumor control rates as good as those for surgery plus WBRT in selected patients. Radiosurgery should not be routinely combined with radiotherapy.
Radiosurgery provides an effective local control for 90% of treated patients with low morbidity. Several significant prognostic factors were detected for patients' survival. These factors can help to predict better patients' survival after the LGK treatment.
Preoperative evaluation and intensive follow-up with MRI could facilitate early detection of brain metastases in patients with potentially operable lung cancer. However, further studies on detection and treatment of the metastatic tumors are considered necessary.
Unacceptable variations in care for those nearing the end of life is recognized. It is believed that the use of the Supportive Care Pathway may help to reduce that variation by identifying and supporting patients thought to be in the last year of their life.
Care of many of the dying patients observed in these hospitals was poor. We need to identify and implement practical steps to facilitate high quality care of the dying. Much can be learned from the hospice movement, but such knowledge and skills must be replicated in all settings.
Despite of higher local recurrence rate, RFA may be considered as a therapeutic option for patients who are considered unsuitable for conventional surgical treatment. Randomized prospective controlled trials comparing the therapeutic outcome of RFA and HR are definitely warranted.
Compared with hepatic resection, RFA for metachronous hepatic metastases from colorectal cancer was associated with higher local recurrence and shorter recurrence-free and overall survival rates, even in patients with solitary, small (</=3 cm) lesions.
Surgical resection is associated with a lower chance of recurrence and a longer disease-free interval than RFA and should remain the treatment of choice in resectable HCM.
RFA of CRC liver metastases followed by HAI is feasible and is associated with acceptable complication and toxicity rates. The high rate of disease recurrence in our patients indicates that novel combinations of regional and systemic therapies are needed to improve patient outcomes.
RFA is as efficient and safe as wedge or anatomic resections in terms of local control.
Given the complications and toxicity associated with HAI pump chemotherapy, adjuvant HAI chemotherapy after RFA of liver metastases may not be warranted as a first line treatment option.
A subgroup of patients has been identified for whom local control after RFA might be equivalent to resection. Whether this is true, and whether this translates into equivalent survival, remains to be proven. The time has come for a randomized trial.
Resection combined with RFA provides a surgical option to a group of patients with liver metastases who traditionally are unresectable, and may increase long-term survival.
Trials are underway to compare chemotherapy plus local ablation to chemotherapy alone. RFA is a tool that should be utilized by experienced individuals to achieve optimal oncologic outcomes.
Perfusion-mediated tissue cooling reduces coagulation necrosis achievable with RF ablation. Reduction of blood flow during RF application increases coagulation in both an animal model and human liver metastases.
UFT with LV plus HAI irinotecan and 5-FU/LV was a feasible and effective treatment for non-resectable CRC liver metastases, increasing response, TTP and OS. TS and DPD levels in liver metastases did not predict outcome.
RFA is an important alternative/complimentary tool in the management of colorectal hepatic metastases. Combining RFA with surgery or chemotherapy may reduce the incidence of local and systemic relapse.
RF ablation appears to be a simple, safe, and potentially effective treatment for selected patients with liver metastases and may become a less invasive alternative to surgical therapy.
One year of treatment with trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy significantly improves disease-free survival among women with HER2-positive breast cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Adjuvant trastuzumab therapy reduces the risk of relapse similarly across subgroups defined by nodal status and steroid hormone receptor status, even those at relatively low risk for relapse.
Truncated RCTs were associated with greater effect sizes than RCTs not stopped early. This difference was independent of the presence of statistical stopping rules and was greatest in smaller studies.
This study shows that suturing or stapling are equally safe in large bowel surgery. However, it also shows a long-term benefit of stapling in colorectal cancer patients.
Stapled ileocolonic reconstruction after right hemicolectomy for colonic carcinoma is a safe and reliable surgical technique associated with long-term cancer outcomes comparable with those obtained by the sutured anastomotic technique.
Functional end-to-end stapled anastomoses after resection for Crohn's disease may be associated with fewer complications than sutured anastomoses and may delay reoperation for symptomatic recurrence. Further evaluation of the technique is indicated.
Our non-randomized study suggests a better trend toward the functional stapled technique, in terms of recurrence rate. These observations need further investigation with randomized controlled trials, to compare the two different anastomotic procedures.
Male gender, previous abdominal surgery and low rectal cancer are associated with increased anastomotic leakage rates. These have important implications during preoperative patient counselling and decision-making regarding defunctioning stoma formation.
These results compare favorably with those of most reported studies. The addition of carbogen breathing appears to improve the results of chemoradiation alone. Erythropoietin therapy avoided transfusions.
Hypoxia and tumor size are significant adverse prognostic factors in a univariate analysis of disease-free survival in patients with cervix cancer. A high risk group of patients with bulky hypoxic tumors have a significantly higher probability of relapse and death.
Substituting pegylated liposomal doxorubicin for doxorubicin in the VAD regimen and reducing the dose of dexamethasone in patients with MM improve the safety profile and convenience of the treatment regimen without compromising efficacy.
Routine therapeutic application of G-CSF in afebrile patients with severe neutropenia can reduce the duration of neutropenia, but this does not appear to provide practical clinical benefit.
Increased-dose BEACOPP resulted in better tumor control and overall survival than did COPP-ABVD.
Malnutrition appears to be an important predictor of survival for patients with end stage malignant disease. Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids had a significant immunomodulating effect and seemed to prolong the survival of malnourished patients with generalized malignancy.
Nutrition intervention together with chemotherapy improved outcomes in patients with pancreatic and non-small-cell lung cancer over 8 weeks. Supplement intake does not inhibit meal intake.
These data are suggestive of an improvement of the nutritional and immunologic status and clinical outcome in cancer patients who receive an enriched enteral diet in the early postoperative course.
Weight stabilisation over an 8 week period in weight-losing patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer was associated with improved survival duration and QoL.
In patients undergoing PD the established nutritional goal can be obtained by enteral feeding. Immunonutrition seems to improve outcome.
Early postoperative enteral feeding is a valid alternative to parenteral feeding in patients undergoing major surgery. Immunonutrition enhances the host response, induces a switch from acute-phase to constitutive proteins, and improves outcome.
Perioperative feeding with a supplemented enteral diet modulates cytokine production and enhances cell-mediated immunity and the synthesis of short half-life proteins.
Preoperative supplementation is as effective as perioperative administration in improving outcome. Both strategies seem superior to the conventional approach.
Use of oral liquid supplements in this fashion did not improve lymphocyte proliferation or monocyte functions in patients with cancer undergoing major surgery.
FO, MLT, or their combination did not induce major biochemical changes indicative of a strong anticachectic effect. Nonetheless, the interventions used may have produced a weight-stabilizing effect.
The findings suggest that epoetin alfa when used to maintain the hemoglobin levels at 12 to 14 g/dL can improve OS and LC of Stage III esophageal cancer patients.
Increasing the duration of paclitaxel infusions from 3 to 6 h does not result in a statistically significant increase in the degree of neutropenia. Any additional neutropenia is likely to be of brief duration.
Paclitaxel infusions of 3 and 6 hours can result in sustained plasma Cremophor concentrations sufficient for substantial reversal of P-glycoprotein-mediated MDR in vitro. These plasma Cremophor concentrations are not achieved during 24-hour infusions of paclitaxel.
There is strong and confirmatory evidence from two large randomized phase III trials to support paclitaxel-cisplatin as the new standard regimen for treatment of patients with advanced ovarian cancer.
People with schizophrenia have an unhealthy lifestyle, which probably contributes to the excess mortality of the disease. They are therefore an appropriate target group for health promotion interventions.
Women with mental disorders are at risk for failure to receive mammography, a recommended preventive service. Women with severe mental illness or psychotic and substance abuse disorders should be targeted to ensure delivery of mammography.
General health services are widely utilized by individuals with serious mental illness who are in outpatient psychiatric care. Dental services remain underutilized, however, and there is a high rate of perceived barriers to receiving medical care in this population.
These model-based lead-time estimates support a prostate cancer screening interval of more than 1 year.
Problem use of drugs and alcohol by people with schizophrenia is greater than in the general population, but absolute numbers are small. Tobacco use is the greatest problem.
The three-dimensional definition selects a small group of patients with SMI who have psychotic disorders. The two-dimensional approach allows estimates of SMI prevalence rates which include all forms of mental disorder.
Survivors of childhood cancer practiced several suboptimal health behaviors. Health promotion interventions aimed at areas of interest and delivered through acceptable channels have the potential to improve long-term health and function of this vulnerable population.
The CHLS will provide important information on the health behaviors of adult minority childhood cancer survivors that can be used to inform the development of interventions to improve modifiable risks.
Although rare, anti-AChR-associated AMC is potentially treatable and can be diagnosed by a routine antibody test. The mouse model can be used to investigate the role of these and other maternal antibodies in causing congenital conditions.
Most providers recommended guideline-endorsed colorectal cancer screening. However, patient refusal for sigmoidoscopy was common. Results indicate that multiple levels of intervention, including patient and provider education and systems strategies, may help increase prevalence.
EICESS 92 treatment is toxic, but manageable and compares favorably to international results. New strategies must be sought for certain risk groups of patients.
The second cancder risk observed was in the range to be expected in cancer survivors. High-dose therapy, and less markedly, etoposide, may contribute to the overall second cancer risk.
These results show that ifosfamide is associated with a lower risk of gonadal damage than cyclophosphamide. The risk of abnormal FSH increased with the cumulative dose of cyclophosphamide.
Standard adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen as compared to adjuvant LHRH analogue therapy employed in this group of breast cancer patients gave similar outcomes, but the number of patients was too small to formally exclude a potentially clinically relevant difference in survival.
The results of this trial, after at least 10 years of follow-up, do not favor the use of ovarian suppression after adjuvant chemotherapy. The potential beneficial effect in younger women with hormono-dependent tumors should be further assessed.
Changes in ER and PgR levels in breast carcinoma during the menstrual cycle and menopause suggest that interpretations of hormone dependency on the basis of steroid receptor values should take into account hormonal status at the time of surgery.
Dye-spray increases the detection of small adenomas in the proximal colon and patients with multiple adenomas, but long-term outcomes should be studied to determine the clinical value of these findings.
On the basis of our results we cannot generally recommend the systematic use of chromoscopy and structure enhancement in a high-risk patient population, although the detection of small adenomas in the proximal colon was improved.
Although HRC improves detection of purely flat adenomas and hyperplastic polyps, the overall detection of colonic adenomas in a population at increased risk of neoplasia is not significantly improved. These findings do not support the routine use of HRC in clinical practice.
With chromoendoscopy using indigocarmine, more polyps can be detected in the ascending colon and cecum as compared with using conventional colonoscopy.
Position change, a cost-neutral intervention, during colonoscope withdrawal improved luminal distension between hepatic flexure and sigmoid-descending junction and has the potential to reduce adenoma and early cancer miss rates.
High definition did not lead to a significant increase in adenoma or hyperplastic polyp detection, but may help where comprehensive lesion detection is paramount. High detection rates appear possible with either SD or HD, when using an optimized withdrawal technique.
A second examination by retroflexion in the proximal colon did not increase the calculated miss rate relative to that performed by a forward view examination. These results do not support the addition of routine right colon retroflexion to colonoscopy.
AFI detects more polyps in the right-sided colon compared to WL colonoscopy.
The overall adenoma miss-rate was 25%; AFI did not significantly reduce the adenoma miss-rate compared with HRE. Both NBI and AFI had a disappointing diagnostic accuracy for polyp differentiation, although AFI had a high sensitivity.
When used as the initial treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, fludarabine yields higher response rates and a longer duration of remission and progression-free survival than chlorambucil.
Among patients with CLL, expression of ZAP-70, as detected by flow-cytometric analysis, correlated with IgVH mutational status, disease progression, and survival.
Our study confirms that Flu and CdA have similar response rates and durations. However, further studies are required to optimize the CdA schedule and dosage in order to ameliorate its toxic profile while maintaining antitumor activity. The two drugs appear to be cross-resistant.
APN interventions improved some QOL indicators but did not raise or lower costs.
A large-scale study of dialogue and TT would require changes in design and recruitment strategies.
Patients were highly satisfied with an individual psychosocial support intervention. In areas dealing with somatic aspects, the group intervened by nurses were more satisfied than the one by psychologists.
Our retrospective results suggest that the indications for curative treatment of early gastric cancer could be expanded. Prospective studies are required.
EMR is a safe and efficient treatment of early gastrointestinal tumors. The development of high-frequency EUS probes may further improve the results of this technique in the future.
Endoscopic resection, especially aspiration lumpectomy, provides a significant benefit for accurate final diagnosis and eradication of submucosal lesions.
Endoscopic mucosectomy can be a valuable therapeutic alternative in early gastric cancer.
The appropriate indication for EMR for EGC is thought to be an intramucosal differentiated-type adenocarcinoma without ulceration or scarring, and no more than 15 mm in size regardless of macroscopic type. Periodic follow-up for at least 5 years is necessary.
These results indicate that complete resection using endoscopic resection alone is possible in early gastric cancers measuring up to 30 mm in diameter. Tumours larger than 30 mm, and those with deep submucosal invasion, cannot be curatively treated by the current endoscopic modalities.
This method is advantageous in that it is simple and relatively easily applied at almost any location within the stomach. In addition, the size of the specimen obtained by en bloc resection is approximately 2 cm. The method is thus fairly likely to come into widespread use.
Endoscopic resection of large gastric intramucosal tumors is easier with endoscopic aspiration mucosectomy compared with strip biopsy. Endoscopic aspiration mucosectomy is a useful procedure for en bloc resection.
The results of the study suggest that preoperative administration of PPI before EMR is useful for controlling and preventing bleeding, and for facilitating the healing of artificial ulcers.
Piecemeal endoscopic aspiration mucosectomy is a simple and very useful technique for treating large superficial intramucosal tumors of the stomach.
Omental wrap, with its mechanical and biological properties, seems to be effective in lowering the rate and the severity of anastomotic leakage after colorectal surgery.
OP decreases the rate of DAC and especially deep abdominal abscess after surgical treatment (unroofing or pericystectomy) for hydatid disease of the liver and should be recommended in this setting.
Although this study was not randomised, the results suggest that omentoplasty to the pelvic space promotes perineal healing after abdominoperineal resection for carcinoma of the rectum by significantly reducing the need for secondary opening.
Although results from the studies included in this review indicate that there may be benefits from including an omentoplasty when performing an abdominoperineal resection, the lack of randomized studies results in only weak evidence.
Administration of Dai-ken-chu-to and Keish-bukuryo-gan is safe, with no evidence of increased morbidity, and is also highly effective in improving postoperative bowel motility and in reducing hospital stay.
This case highlights the fact that CAMs can produce life-threatening toxicity. This case also adds a further note of caution, namely, the potential for serious interactions between CAMs, particularly where there is no tradition of concomitant use.
This megestrol acetate liquid formulation is well tolerated, increases food intake, results in body weight gain, and improves the sense of well-being in cachectic patients with AIDS.
In patients with AIDS-related weight loss, megestrol acetate can stimulate appetite, food intake, and statistically significant weight gain that is associated with a patient-reported improvement in an overall sense of well-being.
We conclude that MA safely increased appetite and body weight, stimulated ventilation, and improved body image in underweight COPD patients, but did not improve respiratory muscle function or exercise tolerance.
Although there was no significant change in cytokine levels between the two groups, the reduction in cytokine levels after MA treatment correlated with improvement in weight, fat mass, and FFM at 12 weeks.
Megestrol acetate can significantly decrease the degree of body weight loss, and can prevent the deterioration of appetite in patients with head and neck cancers receiving radiotherapy. However, prepulsid lacks the above-mentioned clinical benefits.
The effects of high-dose progestins on appetite and body weight were clearly demonstrated. However, further studies are undoubtedly warranted to investigate other aspects of progestin activity, especially as regards dosage, duration and timing with best therapeutic index.
Weight, body fat, and lean body mass increased and pulmonary function improved in the children with CF given MA. Adrenal suppression, glucose intolerance, and diabetes are side effects.
MA produced robust weight gain. Coadministration of testosterone preserved sexual functioning but did not enhance LBM accrual.
Vertical retrocolic duodenojejunostomy does not seem to offer an advantage with respect to gastric emptying.
A vertical retrocolic duodenojejunostomy was an acceptable procedure for the lower incidence of DGE and may contribute to better weight gain affected by moderate gastric emptying.
The addition of pyloromyotomy to pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy is effective in preventing DGE. Results are supportive of the hypothesis that DGE may be caused by operative injuries of the vagus innervating the pyloric region.
Surgical resection remains the only potentially curative therapy for adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. There is no clear indication as to a single preferable resection approach.
Antecolic reconstruction for duodenojejunostomy during PpPD decreases postoperative morbidity and length of hospital stay by decreasing DGE. Our data suggest that PpPD with antecolic duodenojejunostomy is a safer operation.
Erythromycin is a safe, inexpensive drug that significantly accelerates gastric emptying after pancreaticoduodenectomy and reduces the incidence of DGE by 37%. These data support the use of erythromycin to decrease early DGE after pancreaticoduodenectomy.
This study shows a strong prognostic value of FDG-PET for NE tumors, which exceeds the prognostic value of traditional markers such as Ki67, chromogranin A, and liver metastases. FDG-PET may obtain an important role for NE tumors.
This scoring system is reliable and may be used in multicentric trials. However, both initial and relative scores failed to predict final outcome. Thus, intermediate MIBG may be omitted during induction therapy assessment.
These data show that serial plasma catecholamine levels and bone marrow aspirates in the course of the disease are useful tools in predicting outcome.
With the initial use of FDG18 PET-CT imaging, we realized that rate of distant metastasis is much higher which usually remain unnoticed because of conventional approach of investigation. PET-CT imaging has potential to improve the method of conventional IMRT planning.
Preliminary data indicate that PET/CT is a promising tool in the evaluation of pediatric abdominal malignancies. The delineation of the exact role of this diagnostic modality will require additional experience.
FDG PET is helpful in the evaluation of thyroid, neuroendocrine, and neural crest tumors. Although the sensitivity was only 76%, there were no false-positive findings, and FDG PET findings changed the management of 22% of the patients.
WB MRI can substitute for bone scintigraphy in detecting skeletal metastases of paediatric malignant tumours, and it is useful in evaluating initial tumour staging and early treatment responses. However, it still has only a complementary role in detecting extraskeletal metastases.
123I-MIBG scintigraphy and serum determination of NSE are two successful diagnostic tools for the diagnosis and evolution of NB patients.
(123)I-mIBG scintigraphy remains the best scintigraphic method for detecting neuroblastoma tumor tissue, whereas additional SR scintigraphy is able to provide significant prognostic information with a minimum of invasiveness.
This prospective multicenter trial of (123)I-mIBG scintigraphy documents high sensitivity and specificity of this imaging technique in patients with both newly diagnosed and previously treated neuroblastoma.
This study confirmed the recently defined prognostic subsets of GNBn. The INPC proposes to modify the International Neuroblastoma Pathology Classification by distinguishing the FS and the US among patients with GNBn tumors.
Hepatic cryosurgery is a safe therapy for patients with unresectable recurrent HCC.
The authors found cryosurgery to be promising in the treatment of this extremely aggressive form of cancer, with the ability to prolong patient survival. Follow-up treatment with alcohol ablation is an important adjunct in treating residual tumor and controlling recurrences.
As compared with MLS, lobectomy (pneumonectomy) combined with SND can improve survival in resectable NSCLC.
We did not detect a significant long-term adverse influence of pneumonectomy on survival after adjusting for other prognostic factors, but randomized clinical trials would be needed to definitively address this issue.
In this nonrandomized comparison, SS was as efficacious as complete MLND in staging patients with NSCLC. However, complete MLND identified significantly more levels of N2 disease. Furthermore, complete MLND was associated with improved survival with right NSCLC when compared with SS.
Gemcitabine plus cisplatin is a very active and well-tolerated induction regimen in stage III NSCLC. Comparative studies with other standard regimens are warranted.
The results indicate that a limited resection for patients with poor-risk clinical stage I carcinoma of the lung has an advantage over radiotherapy, especially for tumors measuring less than 2 cm in longest diameter.
VATS lobectomy is associated with reduced postoperative release of both proinflammatory and antiinflammatory cytokines compared with the open approach. The clinical significance of these findings remains to be fully elucidated.
Staging that takes into account size, histology, late recurrence risk, and patient age is more accurate than the current TNM system and is clinically relevant because improved prediction can facilitate better decisions on the use of adjuvant chemotherapy.
Long-term survival of patients with completely resected stage I NSCLC was adversely influenced in a relatively balanced way by factors related to the clinical status of the patient, to the tumor, and to the treatment.
These results suggested that p53 accumulation is an early event in lung carcinogenesis and potentially could be useful in the identification of smokers who are at risk of developing SCC, but not in the estimation of survival of the disease.
This 30-month analysis supports the previous 12-month analysis in finding the 2cm criteria as the most liberal definition of LE. Self-reporting of heaviness and swelling, along with 10% LVC, represented the most conservative definitions (41% and 45%, respectively).
Predictors of adherence may differ for supervised and unsupervised exercise, moreover, predicting adherence to supervised exercise may be particularly difficult in well-controlled efficacy trials.
Mean MMP-2, MMP-9, MT1-MMP, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2 mRNA expression in the renal cell carcinomas was significantly higher than in the normal renal tissue.
This study shows that water-based exercise is feasible for breast cancer survivors with arm lymphedema and that shoulder range of motion can be improved years after cancer treatment has been completed.
The physical treatment of edema represents the preferred therapeutic approach. However, it must answer to well-defined criteria to be efficient and for long-lasting effects. The physical treatment is used to treat outpatients, allowing them to follow a normal lifestyle.
The definitive study to determine the incidence of lymphedema has not been performed to date. There has been no prospective study in which patients have been followed at intervals with accurate measurement techniques over the long term.
Being overweight is an important modifiable risk factor for lymphedema. Axillary radiation, more extensive surgery, chemotherapy, and active cancer status also were predictive of lymphedema.
In patients undergoing LRS, prophylactic CPAP during the first 6 h after surgery with a pressure of 5-7 cm H2O improved the Pa(O2)/FI(O2) ratio at 24 h. This effect was more evident in patients with increased risk of postoperative pulmonary complications.
Short-term NIVS with a ventilatory support system improves the efficiency of the lung as a gas exchanger without noticeable nondesired side effects in patients submitted to lung resectional surgery.
In our experience ALI and ARDS are major causes of mortality after lung resection.
These findings indicate that preoperative smoking abstinence of at least 4 weeks is necessary for patients who undergo pulmonary surgery, to reduce the incidence of PPCs.
With adequate initial surgical intervention, chondrosarcoma is primarily a local disease with a low metastatic rate.
This data supports the use of less aggressive procedures for treatment of low-grade chondrosarcomas.
Curettage and cryosurgery for enchondroma and chondrosarcoma grade 1 has excellent oncological and functional results. The post-operative management has been adjusted to reduce the number of fractures.
This trial provides evidence of a slight survival superiority of GP-containing regimens over platinum-free N-containing chemotherapy. This trial also confirms that the addition of a third chemotherapy agent (I) to a standard G-based doublet does not improve treatment outcome.
Both PC and PG combination chemotherapy produce a similar efficacy in the treatment of NSCLC. However, PC is more cost-effective than PG.
Adding cisplatin to vinorelbine treatment is feasible in elderly patients, and has a better response rate and longer median time to disease progression. However, both statistically significantly higher toxicity and no survival advantage for the combination treatment was observed.
The NVB-DDP combination increased objective response rates and time to progression in comparison with NVB alone, but did not influence the survival of patients. The activity of NVB in the treatment of advanced NSCLC was confirmed.
G+V treatment is associated with a significantly better survival than V alone in elderly NSCLC patients. The magnitude of the difference justifies the early closure of the study. The G+V regimen is now the SICOG reference regimen in this type of patients.
GC appears to produce better response in advanced NSCLC than GV-GI, with a trend towards longer TTP. Except for more thrombocytopenia with GC, similar toxicity profiles were observed.
The significant difference in slope of FACT-Taxane score favored the VGD regimen. These data should be considered in treatment decision-making for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
Patients treated with VG experienced lower toxicity, but overall quality of life was similar in both arms. Efficacy seemed comparable between VG and CP. Our study shows that VG is a viable alternative to platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with advanced NSCLC.
There was no advantage in PFS with GD compared with CV; however, the CV regimen had higher rate of toxic events, mainly myelosuppression. The herein, non-platinum-containing regimen could be considered as a rational alternative to the cisplatin-based doublet.
The 1-year survival rate did not exceed 30% for either doublet chemotherapy. Furthermore, each treatment was associated with a substantial degree of toxicity.
PCT combined with VRL produces similar (non-significant) response rates, survival and toxicity (except for neutropenia, as noted above) to standard CRP-PCT treatment in untreated advanced-stage NSCLC.
Based on the similarity of patient outcomes across age groups, doublet chemotherapy is feasible among carefully selected elderly patients with good PS.
Non-platinum and non-paclitaxel gemcitabine-containing doublets demonstrate similar overall survival and RR compared with the standard PC regimen. However, the treatment arms had distinct toxicity profiles.
Although the GV and GC regimens had different toxicity profiles, there was no significant difference in survival among patients with NSCLC in the current study.
Adding CDDP to GV or GT significantly increased RR, but did not prolong the OS of patients. Among doublets, the GT regimen should be preferred in view of its better safety profile.
Single-agent pemetrexed and sequential pemetrexed/gemcitabine have shown moderate activity and are well tolerated as first-line treatments for advanced NSCLC in elderly patients or patients unsuitable for platinum-based combination chemotherapy.
With a higher overall response rate and lower toxicity, GD is a good first treatment option for advanced NSCLC.
Both larotaxel combinations were effective and manageable, however all measured efficacy parameters (response rate, progression free survival, and survival) seemed to favor the combination with cisplatin.
There is substantial underrepresentation of patients 65 years of age or older in studies of treatment for cancer. The reasons should be clarified, and policies adopted to correct this underrepresentation.
This report supports the feasibility of chemotherapy treatment for older NSCLC patients. Optimization of treatment of older NSCLC patients requires the design of prospective older-specific phase III trials for these patients.
Ki-ras mutations are associated with increased risk of relapse and death, but some mutations are more aggressive than others.
Cetuximab has clinically significant activity when given alone or in combination with irinotecan in patients with irinotecan-refractory colorectal cancer.
Cetuximab improves overall survival and progression-free survival and preserves quality-of-life measures in patients with colorectal cancer in whom other treatments have failed. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
ZD1839, when given at 750 mg/day to patients with pre-treated metastatic colorectal cancer, does not result in significant tumor regression.
ESD was found to be the best endoscopic resection method, even for smaller esophageal cancers. EMRC would be a good alternative to ESD for lesions <15 mm.
Minimally invasive esophagectomy is technically feasible and safe in our center, which has extensive minimally invasive and open esophageal experience. Open surgery should remain the standard until future studies conclusively demonstrate advantages of minimally invasive approaches.
Operative mortality rate for oesophagectomy for cancer is strongly influenced by case volume and was 4.6-fold higher when performed by surgeons with low case volume. Patients with oesophageal cancer in need of an oesophagectomy may benefit from referral to a high-volume thoracic surgeon.
Patients randomized for receiving hyperbaric oxygen after the RT had better QoL scores for swallowing, sticky saliva, xerostomia, and pain in mouth.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy should be considered as a treatment option for patients with persisting symptomatology following breast-conserving therapy.
Implant insertion in irradiated bone is associated with a higher failure rate. Adjuvant HBO treatment can reduce the failures.
Complication rates in the treatment of localized prostate cancer have decreased during the last 20 to 40 years. This decrease occurred despite evidence that the average age of treated patients had increased during the same period.
We report the first model to reliably predict the age of ovarian failure after treatment with a known dose of radiotherapy. Clinical application of this model will enable physicians to counsel women on their reproductive potential following successful treatment.
Both RT schedules adopted were effective. As already shown in several trials evaluating RT regimens in uncomplicated painful bone metastases, also MSCC patients may achieve palliation with minimal toxicity and inconvenience with a single-dose of 8 Gy.
We found strong evidence that treatment of metastatic epidural spinal cord compression with surgery in addition to radiotherapy is cost-effective both in terms of cost per additional day of ambulation, and cost per life-year gained.
Patients with MSCC from an unfavorable primary tumor appeared to benefit from DDSS but not LE when added to radiotherapy in terms of improved functional outcome.
A new surgical strategy for spinal metastases based on the prognostic scoring system is proposed. This strategy provides appropriate guidelines for treatment in all patients with spinal metastases.
Concept of sentinel node may be applied first of all for vulvar cancer and also for cervical and endometrial cancer.
SLNB is feasible and safe to perform in vulvar cancer. Further evaluation is needed until new guidelines allow the use in early-stage vulvar cancer.
The SLN procedure may be used to identify malignant groins in selected patients with vulval cancer. The extent to which previous vulval surgery might influence the accuracy of the SLN procedure deserves further investigation.
In a limited number of patients, lymphazurin day may be useful in identifying or assessing the sentinel nodes draining vulvar and cervical cancers. The role of this procedure in treatment planning for patients with gynecologic malignancies is yet to be determined.
SLN dissection is feasible and safe to perform in vulvar cancer. The ability to identify bilateral sentinel inguinal lymph nodes appears to be related to the proximity of the vulvar cancer to the midline.
Experience and careful patient selection can permit sentinel node identification with blue dye injection alone in more than 95% of patients with vulvar cancer.
SLNB procedure in vulvar cancer is feasible and safe. SLN identification appears to be highly accurate for detecting metastases in the ipsilateral inguinal lymphatic basins.
Sentinel lymph node identification in early stage vulvar cancer is a feasible. Analysis of recurrence may allow considering this procedure as a possible alternative to inguino-femoral lymphadenectomy.
A sentinel node identification rate of 98% with a false-negative rate of 0% in the patients with Stage I-II disease is an encouraging finding.
In SLN mapping, the Tc-99m colloid lymphoscintigraphy is superior to the blue dye staining. Our data do not support the concept of the SLN identification as a highly accurate procedure in predicting the inguinofemoral LN status in patients with early stage vulvar cancer.
The parallel use of the (⁹⁹m)Tc labelled radiocolloid and blue dye enables high sentinel node detection rates by adequately trained surgeons.
Lymphatic mapping in vulvar cancer based on the combined detection technique is a highly accurate method after adequate training of the surgeons.
Fusion imaging using SPECT and CT/MRI can detect SLN in vulvar cancer more precisely than planar imaging regarding number and anatomical localisation. FICT revealed additional information in seven out of ten cases (70%).
These first clinical results indicate that intraoperative transcutaneous lymphatic mapping using fluorescence is technically feasible in a subgroup of lean vulvar cancer patients.
The addition of immunohistochemical staining to ultrastaging with H&E staining in the pathologic evaluation of inguinal sentinel lymph nodes does not increase the detection of micrometastasis in patients with primary squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.
Lymphatic mapping is feasible in patients with squamous cell cancer of the vulva. These initial results suggests further study is warranted.
Omission of SLN intra-operative staging in T1-N0-patients is rather safe. It provides the institution with both management and economical advantages.
Chemotherapy with etoposide, methotrexate, actinomycin D, cyclophosphamide, and vincristine is well tolerated and highly effective for metastatic, high-risk gestational trophoblastic disease.
The low percentage of positive biopsies is encouraging but the significance of the persistent PSA levels remains uncertain.
The results of this prospective evaluation show cryosurgery to be both a safe and an effective option in the treatment of localized prostate cancer.
Total cryosurgical destruction of the prostate may offer new opportunities for cancer treatment heretofore unrecognized and should undergo more investigational analysis.
Cryoablation was a feasible treatment option in patients with organ-confined prostate carcinoma who had high-risk features. Longer follow-up will be necessary to determine the effectiveness of this approach.
Preliminary results indicate that percutaneous transperineal ultrasound-guided prostate cryosurgery may be an effective treatment for prostate cancer with minimal associated morbidity.
Salvage cryotherapy impacts local tumor control as evident by the high frequency of negative posttreatment biopsies. A double freeze-thaw cycle appears more effective than a single cycle. Like salvage prostatectomy, salvage cryotherapy causes significant morbidity.
Breast irradiation significantly reduces breast relapse, but it does not influence survival. Important predictors of breast relapse are age, tumor size, and nuclear grade, but not the presence of ductal carcinoma in situ. Age and, in particular, nuclear grade predict survival.
Modifiable risk factors, especially cholesterol, and also duration of HAART, were key determinants of CVD risk.
the key study implications focus on the need for (i) improved holistic care and support, and advice; (ii) training and awareness raising of care professionals; (iii) further research on the lived experiences of the condition and the development of effective measures of cachexia.
Our study found no overall preventive effect of long-term supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene on gastric cancer in middle-aged male smokers.
Supplementation with beta-carotene or alpha-tocopherol does not have a statistically significant effect on the rate of incidence of pancreatic carcinoma or the rate of mortality caused by this disease.
Our findings support a possible role for H. pylori carriage in the development of exocrine pancreatic cancer.
Supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene for a median of 6.6 years does not protect against retinal vascular changes among smoking males.
No beneficial effect of long-term supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene on the occurrence of ARM was detected among smoking males.
We conclude that assay of SPGI followed by endoscopy is an approach which can enable the early diagnosis of gastric cancer at a curable stage.
We thus conclude that supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene for 5 years has no major impact on the occurrence of neoplastic changes of the stomach in older male smokers with atrophic gastritis.
On the basis of these results, we suggest that the use of ramipril is likely to represent an efficient use of resources in both countries. These findings support the use of ramipril in populations included in the HOPE study.
In patients with CV disease simple, easily applicable ECG criteria for LVH identify a subset of individuals at particularly high risk for death and for heart failure.
Treatment with ramipril reduces the CV risk in high-risk women without heart failure and with preserved LV systolic function.
The daily administration of 400 IU vitamin E for an average of 4.5 years to middle-aged and elderly people with diabetes and CV disease and/or additional coronary risk factor(s) has no effect on CV outcomes or nephropathy.
In patients who had preexisting vascular disease or diabetes combined with an additional cardiovascular risk factor, mild renal insufficiency significantly increased the risk for subsequent cardiovascular events. Ramipril reduced cardiovascular risk without increasing adverse effects.
In patients at high cardiovascular risk, modest hypokalemia predicts a less favorable outcome while modest hyperkalemia does not. Ramipril reduces hypokalemia and decreases risk.
The ABI even if measured simply by palpation of the foot arteries is a strong predictor for future cardiovascular events and for all-cause mortality. Ramipril prevented major cardiovascular events in patients with clinical as well as subclinical PAD.
Ramipril reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal serious arrhythmic events in high-risk patients without clinical heart failure or overt left ventricular systolic dysfunction.
In patients at high risk for cardiovascular events, treatment with vitamin E for a mean of 4.5 years had no apparent effect on cardiovascular outcomes.
Ramipril is associated with lower rates of new diagnosis of diabetes in high-risk individuals. Because these results have important clinical and public health implications, this hypothesis requires prospective confirmation.
Ramipril significantly reduces the rates of death, myocardial infarction, and stroke in a broad range of high-risk patients who are not known to have a low ejection fraction or heart failure.
No substantial short-term beneficial effect on incidence or mortality for this type of cancer occurred following daily supplementation with multiple vitamins and minerals among adults with precancerous lesions of the esophagus.
These results support the hypothesis that dairy products and calcium are associated with a greater risk of prostate cancer.
Our results suggest an inverse association between vegetable intake and risk of CHD. These prospective data support current dietary guidelines to increase vegetable intake for the prevention of CHD.
Among these apparently healthy U.S. male physicians, fibrinogen is associated with increased risk of future MI independent of other coronary risk factors, atherogenic factors such as lipids and antithrombotics such as aspirin.
Participation in some vigorous activity may be viewed as a "facilitator" to attain physical activity recommendations. Relationships with physical environment variables in Europe need further investigation.
Even if differences between region of residence were found in blood lipid levels, this cannot explain the North-East to South gradient in the prevalence of cardiovascular disease in France nor differences between France and other industrialized Western countries.
These cross-sectional data suggest significant positive associations of physical inactivity with both the WHR and WC, independently of overall adiposity as assessed by the BMI.
The aggregate of the disparate alcohol risk factor relationships suggests probable net benefit at 15 to 25 g of alcohol/day.
They will be useful in future studies of the relationship between alcohol intake and medical conditions or risk factors.
These results suggest no beneficial effects of long-term daily low-dose supplementation of antioxidant vitamins and minerals on carotid atherosclerosis and arterial stiffness.
In this population of women with CVD, we observed a strong, continuous, and linear association between SBP and risk of secondary CVD events. SBP was the blood pressure measure most strongly related to CVD risk.
This trial revealed the interventional effect of folic acid on the development of GI cancers, a similar effect of beta-carotene was also detected. Also, folic acid may be of use to treat atrophic gastritis by preventing or reversing the precancerous lesions.
There was a progressive reduction in serum retinol levels from controls to patients with liver cirrhosis. Those patients with cirrhosis and HCC had significantly lower values than patients with cirrhosis alone. Serum retinol levels may be a risk factor for the development of HCC.
Supplementation of BC in doses used in this study may have significantly interfered with the VE concentration in the examined tissue and probably with its metabolic pathway.
Treatment with beta carotene, vitamin A, and vitamin E may increase mortality. The potential roles of vitamin C and selenium on mortality need further study.
Frequent consumption of vegetables may reduce the risk of gastric cancer.
Supplemental multivitamins, vitamin C, vitamin E, and folate were not associated with a decreased risk of lung cancer. Supplemental vitamin E was associated with a small increased risk. Patients should be counseled against using these supplements to prevent lung cancer.
Retesting intervals should be individualized on the basis of the PSA level, and the large group of men with PSA levels of less than 1 ng/mL can safely be scheduled for a 3-year testing interval.
Biennial PSA screening reduces the risk of being diagnosed with metastatic prostate cancer, the first prerequisite for achieving decreased cancer mortality in younger men. This putative benefit is balanced by a 1.8-fold increased risk for diagnosis of prostate cancer.
The most cost-effective protocol for screening prostate carcinoma appears to be prescreening by total serum PSA. The F/T ratio might be used to detect carcinomas in the PSA range below 4.0 ng/mL, but the best threshold remains to be assessed.
PSA testing was moderate in the control arm but if different men undergo this test each year, the contamination rate may become rather high. In the final analysis of mortality PSA testing should be considered.
The results of this case-control study suggest a potential benefit of screening by PSA testing and/or DRE on PCa mortality.
When prospective SES-related confounding factors are matched across comparison communities, PSA IDM interventions can be shown to promote IDM. Framing the PSA test decision relative to less-ambiguous screening decisions does not appear to increase the likelihood of PSA IDM.
In an insured population with a high degree of primary care access, continuity with a specific primary care physician was associated with the selection of less invasive colorectal cancer screening tests by patients and physicians and greater likelihood of PSA testing.
Overall, older African American men with comorbidities appear to be very good candidates for participation in longitudinal cancer screening trials. However, smoking had a statistically significant and deleterious effect on adherence to all types of screening.
Three of six examiners considered DRE significantly more often suspicious than the others. However, under equal circumstances a suspicious DRE executed by each examiner increased the chance of the presence of PC similarly.
This study confirms earlier findings that the inverse relationship between PSA concentration and BMI may be explained by a hemodilution effect. These findings could have implications for prostate cancer screening in large men.
HD men had lower PSA levels than those of controls.
This predictive nomogram could provide more precise risk-analysis information for individual Japanese patients with PSA levels less than 10 ng/mL and may help to identify patients who need a prostate biopsy.
Spaced education delivered prospectively can generate significant, topic-specific learning.
According to patient perceptions, residents appeared to perform as well as faculty in SDM and other aspects of PCS discussions, although the topics that they covered with patients might have differed.
Two simple low-literacy interventions significantly increased discussion of prostate cancer and PSA test orders but not performance of DRE. Both interventions were effective in empowering low-literacy patients to initiate conversations about prostate cancer with their physician.
Cancer detection in low PSA ranges is lower but still relevant. The detection of potentially aggresive cancers is still of concern.
Using percent free PSA increased the detection rate of aggressive disease compared with digital rectal examination and provided higher specificity than PSA alone.
The model was demonstrated to be an efficient platform for new drug screening; however, IM862, though well tolerated, failed to demonstrate superiority over placebo in prolonging time to PSA progression.
PSA screening using an ever/never tabulation for tests from 1989 until 2000 did not protect New Jersey men from prostate cancer mortality.
CECD targeted biopsy detected more cancers than SB with a reduced number of biopsy cores.
The disc assay system seems to be a sensitive and accurate assay system. The feasibility and reliability of the disc assay system were well demonstrated in the field during prostate cancer mass screening.
Screening for carcinoma of the prostate by a urologist or a general practitioner using digital rectal examination is a cost effective method of early diagnosis. Whether such screening leads to prolonged survival, however, remains doubtful.
Despite the 4-yr interval an important shift of all prognostic factors occurred in favour of round 2. In those men who underwent radical prostatectomy, 42.6% fulfilled the criteria of minimal cancer. These data suggest that overdiagnosis increases with repeat screening.
The mean values of PSA velocity, PSA slope, and PSADT in a rescreened population differed significantly between men with and without prostate cancer. However, in predicting the biopsy outcome, the PSA dynamics were of limited value.
National survey data are overestimating cancer-screening utilization for several common procedures and may be masking disparities in screening due to racial/ethnic differences in reporting accuracy.
The current nomogram can identify substantial groups of screen-detected cancers that are likely indolent and can therefore be considered for active surveillance.
Pain and discomfort during DRE are not negligible but they do not affect intention to have a prostate exam in the future. Urinating immediately before examination does not significantly reduce the incidence of pain, urinary urgency, or bowel urgency during DRE.
For PSA values of 0-3.9 ng/mL, the positive predictive value and sensitivity of DRE, tumor volume, and tumor grade were strongly dependent on PSA level. DRE has a poor performance in low PSA ranges.
The present data suggest a very much unfavourable "number needed to be biopsied" to find one missed cancer or to detect the deadly interval cancers.
A randomized trial of prostate carcinoma screening is set up in Europe currently with five participating centers from five countries. First overall effect results of regular screening are expected after a 10-year period of follow-up.
Prostate specific antigen does not lose predictive value for the detection of prostate cancer even after a first biopsy shows no evidence of cancer, and its performance characteristics are only slightly decreased.
In this study of non-malignant prostate biopsy specimens from a screened population, no pathological features could be identified that were predictive for detecting prostate cancer on biopsy 4 years later.
In a repeat PSA based screening program sextant biopsies are of little or no value for predicting tumor volume.
In this case-control study screening of asymptomatic men with PSA was associated with a significantly reduced risk of metastatic prostate cancer. The results need to be confirmed in randomized controlled trials.
The results of the current study significantly contribute to knowledge regarding HFs in women with BC and support the need for carefully controlled clinical trials evaluating interventions for relieving HFs in this population.
All agents used for breast carcinoma chemoprevention and adjuvant therapy appear to increase the risk of VTE. Available data were insufficient to support any assumptions that newer hormonal forms of hormone manipulation are safer than tamoxifen in women with advanced breast carcinoma.
Adverse event profiles are similar among second-generation antidepressants. However, different frequencies of specific adverse events might be clinically relevant and influence the choice of a treatment.
The protocol studied provided a safe approach for switching from transdermal fentanyl to oral methadone, improving the balance between analgesia and side effects in patients with cancer.
Rectal methadone can be considered an effective analgesic therapy for patients with cancer pain for whom oral and/or parenteral opioids are not indicated or available.
On the basis of this preliminary study, the authors suggest that when switching from intravenous fentanyl to methadone a conversion ratio of 25 microg/hour of fentanyl to 0.1 mg/hour of methadone may be safe and effective.
This method of methadone titration often results in improved pain control in patients with morphine resistance or intolerance. It requires careful titration in a specialist inpatient unit as there is no reliable formula for dose equivalence.
Oral methadone can be recommended for babies and children who have severe pain that is not alleviated by nonopioid medications and who are capable of oral intake.
Although there are modest differences among the three tested anesthetics, short-term outcome was not affected. These results indicate that, despite their respective cerebrovascular effects, all of the anesthetic regimens used were acceptable in these patients undergoing elective surgery.
We believe this treatment may be considered for further studies not only in acute lung rejection therapy when intensive immunosuppression is contraindicated but also as a means of rejection prevention.
In this pilot study, the addition of photopheresis to triple-drug immunosuppressive therapy significantly decreased the risk of cardiac rejection without increasing the incidence of infection.
These novel findings indicate that ECP efficiently impairs the proinflammatory capacity of slanDCs, which may represent an important mechanism for the therapeutic efficiency of ECP in GVHD.
Consolidation chemotherapy after CCRT is well tolerated and effective in patients with locally advanced cervical carcinoma. A prospective randomized trial to compare this treatment strategy with standard CCRT seems to be worthwhile.
Capecitabine-based chemoradiotherapy with adjuvant capecitabine is a well-tolerated option with an early signal of efficacy meriting further evaluation.
These results indicate that concomitant chemobrachyradiotherapy with ifosfamide and cisplatin is a feasible combination for patients with LASCC of the cervix uteri. A randomized trial is planned.
Palliative surgery for bowel obstruction in advanced ovarian cancer can be worthwhile, and there are four prognostic factors that indicate the likely failure of palliation.
Long-term survival after pelvic exenteration for recurrent colorectal carcinoma is uncommon (2/43), but sustained palliation and local control can be achieved with acceptable morbidity and mortality in most patients with intractable pelvic symptoms.
Depending on the treatment received, male HL patients are at high risk of infertility after treatment. FSH might be used as surrogate parameter for male fertility in future studies.
The BEACOPP regimen is highly effective, and moderate dose escalation makes a further worthwhile improvement in tumour control. Current trials will measure BEACOPP against the international standard and show whether the amount of chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy can be reduced.
BEACOPP chemotherapy is feasible and generally well tolerated in children with advanced-stage HL. The absence of reported progressive disease and only one relapse to date is encouraging.
Elderly patients who achieve CR can have good RFS and cure is possible, but the toxic cost of conventional strategies is unacceptable and selected strategies still must be found.
Bortezomib, a member of a new class of anticancer drugs, is active in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma that is refractory to conventional chemotherapy.
Bortezomib is superior to high-dose dexamethasone for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have had a relapse after one to three previous therapies.
Head and neck cancer patients who have advanced disease or live alone should be assessed so that psychologic distress can be detected and intervention made. HADS is a useful clinical instrument to screen for their distress.
We conclude that these chemotherapeutic regimens are well tolerated regimens with modest toxicity. Future trials will be conducted associating the CVD regimen with biological response modifiers (IFN, IL-2) in order to improve the results.
The combination of temozolomide and IFN-alpha 2b can easily be administered and shows tolerable toxicity. When an objective response occurs after three cycles, it indicates a significant survival advantage.
Paget's disease of the vulva is rarely associated with an underlying vulvar adenocarcinoma or invasive Paget's disease, but there is a high recurrence rate.
Radiotherapy is a curative treatment in selected cases of in situ extramammary Paget disease affecting the vulva.
Evidence of the effectiveness of PDT for Paget's disease is promising, but limited. This may, in part, be explained by the rarity of the condition, making controlled comparative clinical trials challenging.
MAL-PDT is a feasible treatment and seems to offer a reliable strategy in the control of vulvar Paget's disease and of its symptoms.
Our home-based exercise intervention had no effect on fatigue or related symptoms associated with cancer treatment. The optimal timing of exercise remains to be determined.
This study indicates that MQ can improve cancer patients' overall QOL and mood status and reduce specific side-effects of treatment. It may also produce physical benefits in the long term through reduced inflammation.
Across five trials of cancer patients on and off chemotherapy, hemoglobin response was associated with meaningful improvements in fatigue, which, in turn, was associated with improved physical, functional, emotional and overall well-being.
Aerobic exercise improves the physical performance of cancer patients recovering from high dose chemotherapy. To reduce fatigue, this group of patients should be counseled to increase physical activity rather than rest after treatment.
A 3-week exercise program leads to a substantial improvement of physical performance and reduction of mental and physical fatigue in cancer patients after treatment. However, this intervention does not affect depression, anxiety, or cognitive fatigue.
Delivery of a standardized resistive exercise PT intervention is feasible during outpatient radiation therapy and is associated with preserved physical well-being. However, benefits were not sustained, and fatigue was not affected.
Very low doses of warfarin can protect against thrombosis without inducing a hemorrhagic state. This approach may be applicable to other groups of patients.
In this study of early and short-term prophylaxis, acenocumarine was more effective than dalteparin on non-occlusive and asymptomatic CVCrT events. The first days following CVC insertion represent the highest risk for CVCrT.
This study found no benefit of the routine use of minidose warfarin for prophylaxis of central vein' catheter thrombosis in patients with haematological malignancies and therefore does not support the routine use of minidose warfarin for prophylaxis in such patients.
Dalteparin prophylaxis did not reduce the frequency of thromboembolic complications after CVC implantation in cancer patients. Dalteparin was demonstrated to be safe over 16 weeks of treatment in these patients.
Prophylaxis showed a benefit regarding catheter-related and non-catheter-related DVT with no increase in serious side effects.
Evidence based on a small number of randomized subjects should be interpreted cautiously. Early treatment efficacy of pharmacotherapies is occasionally overestimated.
The laparoscopic bilateral cystectomy followed by non-conservative treatment performed at the first recurrence after the childbearing completion is an effective surgical strategy for patients with bilateral early-stage BOTs who desire to conceive as soon as possible.
Conservative laparoscopic surgery may be the treatment of choice; an attractive option is that this surgery should be performed by an oncologist surgeon to obtain correct surgical staging and better results in terms of both relapse-free survival and pregnancies.
This is the first study of a hormonal agent in a preselected group of ER-positive ovarian cancer patients. A signature of predictive markers, including low HER2 expression, predicts response.
The PCT process was successfully implemented by 12 blood centers in the United States to produce PCT PLTs used in a prospective, randomized trial where therapeutic efficacy of PCT PLTs was demonstrated. Process control was achieved under blood bank operating conditions.
Universal use of PI was implemented without impacting component use, as indicated by total dose of PLTs per patient, and outcomes to transfusion were improved.
The results of an extensive series of studies have demonstrated no toxicologically relevant effects of photochemically treated 100% plasma prepared using the INTERCEPT Blood System for plasma.
The use of helium insufflation for laparoscopic surgery, while not associated with any significant adverse sequelae, was not associated with less postoperative pain in this trial. The use of saline peritoneal lavage was associated with less pain in the early postoperative period.
These results suggest that the use of N2O PP has sufficient advantages over CO2 that it should be considered as the standard agent for therapeutic PP.
There is no difference in intraoperative and postoperative pain between nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum for laparoscopic sterilization when used in conjunction with a protocol such as ours.
He PP is an effective alternative to CO2 PP for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy avoiding CO2 retention and subsequent acidosis. Carbon dioxide retention may be dangerous in patients with pulmonary dysfunction who undergo laparoscopy.
The authors have shown that it is possible for nitrous oxide to reach concentrations in the peritoneal cavity that can support combustion of bowel gas.
Although operative times are longer for LS than OS, LS is associated with a significant reduction in splenectomy-related morbidity, primarily as a function of fewer pulmonary, wound, and infectious complications.
These data indicate that paclitaxel is an active agent against adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
Postoperative CRT appears to prolong survival in patients with lymph node positive, resected esophageal carcinoma.
HDR brachytherapy may improve the degree of endobronchial obstruction, atelectasis, symptoms, and level of function with minimal short term complications in patients with recurrent or residual symptomatic disease following external irradiation.
The addition of concurrent cisplatin to radiotherapy resulted in a modest improvement in survival and was associated with manageable additional acute and late morbidity.
Subcutaneous use of mistletoe lectin as adjuvant treatment after transurethral resection does not seem to affect the time to first recurrence, total number of recurrences or recurrence-free outcome.
1/Iscador QuS and specially Intron A increases the CIN1 and CIN2 remission rate. 2/These two agents may also affect the HPV remission.
From these results it is concluded that standardized mistletoe extract could be a potential alternative adjuvant therapy for superficial bladder cancer. Nevertheless, the optimal intravesical treatment regimen has yet to be defined.
Treatment with IQ or ML stimulates the production of GM-CSF, IL-5 and IFNgamma by PBMC, and this is accompanied by an increase of eosinophil- and granulocyte-counts. These observations may, therefore, open rational therapeutic indications for mistletoe extracts.
These data obtained in healthy individuals clearly indicate that IQ and IP-extracts can induce antigen-specific humoral responses. They may, therefore, provide, a solid basic for the evaluation of the humoral immune response in disease states.
Controlled clinical trials are needed to guide clinicians in making appropriate management decisions for their patients.
Laparoscopic management of suspicious adnexal masses is technically feasible, with a low rate of morbidity and a short hospital stay. Adnexal carcinomas can be identified and managed appropriately with staging and complete resection as indicated.
Conjunctival inclusion cysts can be seen as an atypical finding of long-standing vernal keratoconjunctivitis. Mechanical friction between the giant papillae and conjunctiva may be a factor in inducing the formation of the conjunctival cysts.
Laparoscopic management of early ovarian cancer is safe and effective and survival outcome seems acceptable.
Insufflation of CO(2) into the peritoneal cavity seemed to result in an immediate decrease in peritoneal pH, a response that might influence biological events. This peritoneal effect also seems to influence systemic acid-base balance, probably due to trans-peritoneal absorption.
Laparoscopic surgery of ovarian mass later found to be malignant can cause considerable and early spread of the cancer.
Laparoscopic surgery may be an acceptable procedure for paraaortic lymph node sampling, sparing the patient a restaging laparotomy.
As used in this study, a dietary supplement of wheat-bran fiber does not protect against recurrent colorectal adenomas.
Adopting a diet that is low in fat and high in fiber, fruits, and vegetables does not influence the risk of recurrence of colorectal adenomas.
Long-term cigarette smoking is associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer mortality in both men and women. Clear reduction in risk is observed with early smoking cessation.
Our data do not support the existence of an important protective effect of dietary fiber against colorectal cancer or adenoma.
Although dietary patterns of Americans in relation to total fat and saturated fat intakes have changed toward a healthier diet, these changes did not meet recommendations. The US population continues to consume lower intakes of fiber and higher intakes of sodium.
In Sweden, a second Pap smear is often obtained for the follow-up of women with low-grade atypia. The results of our study show that compared to the second Pap smear, HPV testing with HC II is a more sensitive method for detecting high-grade lesions.
This study weakens the case for age-adjusted HPV triage of low-grade cervical abnormalities.
Our data were comparable with those recently published on the meta-analysis by Arbyn et al., confirming the promising approach of our guidelines for the treatment of these patients even in terms of Health Technology Assessment (HTA).
HPV test showed the best performance; overall, it had the highest sensitivity (92.3%), specificity (78.6%) and PPV (14.9%).
The ProEx C immunocytochemical assay can be integrated into a clinical cytology laboratory and may increase the PPV of LBC for biopsy-proven HSIL.
Testing for HPV has higher sensitivity but lower specificity than thin-layer Pap screening. In some settings, particularly where screening intervals are long or haphazard, screening for HPV DNA may be a reasonable alternative to cytology-based screening of reproductive-age women.
Performance of HCII and LA does not significantly differ in detecting CIN2+ or CIN3+.
HR-HPV detection using Hybrid Capture II is useful in the study of lesions of the uterine cervix. It displays a high sensitivity for the diagnosis of squamous intraepithelial lesions and invasive carcinomas and a high usefulness in the management of ASCUS cases.
Triage based on HPV testing would result in referral of approximately 31% of patients to colposcopy and appears to be a sensitive and cost-effective alternative to colposcopy.
ProEx C staining is a more sensitive and specific biomarker for detecting cervical disease than adjunct testing for hr-HPV status in Papanicolaou tests with ASC-US.
Adding a high-risk HPV test in secondary screening increased the identification of women with CIN2-3 lesions by 33% in comparison with repeat cytology (p=0.01). The clinical significance of the ASCUS diagnosis varied with age of the women.
HC 2 testing for cancer-associated HPV DNA is a viable option in the management of women with ASCUS. It has greater sensitivity to detect CIN3 or above and specificity comparable to a single additional cytologic test indicating ASCUS or above.
The RQ of HPV E6 mRNA and HPV genotype could be useful in a cascade of diagnostic testing designed to refer women with findings of cervical abnormalities for colposcopy or treatment while reducing triage numbers.
In the light of these findings, and in conjunction with the high rate of oncogenic HPV infection among adolescents with ASC-US, both reflex HPV testing and immediate colposcopy do not appear to be of benefit in the initial management of teenagers with this cytological diagnosis.
For HPV types 16 or 18 positive patients with LGSIL cytology the viral load might have predictive value. Our study suggested that patients with elevated viral loads are at disease risk progression and should be carefully evaluated.
Because HPV testing is highly sensitive, it may be useful as an alternative to the current policy of 6-month repeat cytology for women with ASCUS.
Pathogenic activity of HR-HPV was indicated by p16 expression on smears and tissue sections, which appears to be a better strategy than HR-HPV viral load test for the detection of clinically insignificant lesions from AGC-categorized Pap smears.
Monolayer cytology is less reliable and more likely to give false positive and false negative results than conventional cervical smear tests for screening for cervical cancer.
The APTIMA HPV Assay is sensitive and very specific for detection of high-risk HPV. The APTIMA HPV Assay had similar clinical sensitivity for disease detection but higher clinical specificity than the HC2 test, which may improve patient management and reduce the cost of care.
Higher risk of SIL following the appearance of ASCUS among HIV-infected women, especially women with low CD4+ lymphocyte counts, supports the need for follow up with colposcopy and histologic examination, as indicated, to allow early detection and treatment of SIL.
Reflex HPV infection testing performed similarly for women in different age groups, including perimenopausal and postmenopausal women.
The pretreatment of bloody specimens with GAA did not appear to significantly affect high-risk HPV DNA testing in specimens with an ASCUS interpretation.
AHPV is much more efficient at detecting HPV 16 RNA than DNA. Selective capture, amplification, and detection of HPV RNA by AHPV may improve the specificity of molecular HPV testing.
Smoking contributes additional risk for developing high-grade CIN in women with ASC or LSIL cytology but normal colposcopy.
The results support the use of the Invader V2.0 in identifying patients who are at low risk for CIN 3 or higher. The power of the assay implies that it could be used as a primary screening tool for prevention of cervical cancer if a paradigm shift in cervical screening ever occurs.
Women who are cytology negative and HPV negative at 6 months after treatment for CIN can safely be returned to 3-year recall.
HPV DNA testing is an economically viable strategy for triage of ASCUS cytology. The less than perfect sensitivity of colposcopy and biopsy needs to be accounted for in future clinical guidelines and policy analyses.
HPV DNA testing appears to be a valuable tool for triage of women with ASCUS smears. Its high negative predictive value provides needed reassurance for follow-up with only periodic cytology.
Testing for human papillomavirus to manage all women with borderline or mildly dyskaryotic cervical smear results is likely to be cost effective. The predicted increase in lifetime colposcopies, however, deserves careful consideration.
Development of DNA methylation status of a gene panel to improve diagnostic accuracy in cervical neoplasia is warranted.
For women with HIV and Papanicolaou smears read as ASCUS, DNA testing for high risk HPV may not be sensitive enough for clinical use.
Finding acetowhite lesions identifies women with CIN 2+, but using subtler colposcopic characteristics to grade lesions is insensitive. All acetowhite lesions should be assessed with biopsy to maximize sensitivity of colposcopic diagnosis with good specificity.
Evaluation of patients with ASC-H with colposcopy does lead to the detection of CIN 2 or 3 but perhaps at a rate lower than previously reported.
The Roche AMPLICOR HPV test is comparable to other HPV tests (HCII, PCR) in detecting CIN in MAPS. However, more data are clearly needed on the performance of AMPLICOR test in management of abnormal PAP and particularly as a screening tool.
The positive rate of high-risk HPV increases with the gravity of cervical lesions. In patients with abnormal cervical cytology, high-risk HPV testing can improve the sensitivity and specificity in the screening of HSIL.
Accepting the proposition that higher contingent valuations indicate stronger behavioural preferences, our results offer insubstantial grounds for believing that the inclusion of HPV triage would detrimentally affect participation in Pap screening for cervical cancer.
HPV L1-positivity was found to have prognostic significance in relation to disease progression in women with CIN 1 and CIN 2 and particularly in those less than 30 years of age.
Neither detection of telomerase or its components, nor detection of high risk HPV seem suitable for the triage of women with borderline, mild, and moderate cytological dyskaryosis.
The viral load of high-risk HPV types was significantly associated with the diagnosis of CIN2 or CIN3 in women referred because of atypical squamous cells and LSIL abnormalities in their cervical smear.
Because cytological abnormalities correlated generally better with the persistence of biopsy-confirmed CIN1 in this follow-up protocol, HCII test is the second-hand option to Pap test, but the use of both Pap and HCII together seems an unnecessary waste of resources.
Smoking increases the risk of contracting hr-HPV infection and modifies the effect of a persistent hr-HPV infection by further increasing the risk of developing CIN2+. It seems that this effect modification persists over several years after smoking cessation.
Hybrid Capture 2 positive rates and CIN2-3 detection rates were comparable for the SurePath and ThinPrep Pap collection systems, thus supporting the use of SurePath for Hybrid Capture 2 testing.
The detection of both p53 and Bcl-2 proteins in cervical smears can be used as independent diagnostic marker for early-stage HPV-associated cervical cancer.
ProExC shows promise as an aid in enhancing the sensitivity and specificity of cervical cytology for subsequent CIN 2+/HSIL and may be useful in identifying those cervical lesions most apt to progress.
Genotype-specific HPV testing may be useful for identifying women with atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance and low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions who are at higher and lower risk of prevalent and incipient cervical precancer.
Some diagnostic cytological features can be used as markers in Pap smear screening for assessing the types of HPV infection.
HPV18 DNA load was higher for women with LSIL or HSIL at enrollment with no evidence of CIN2-3 during the 2-year follow-up period than it was for women with CIN2-3. Thus, testing for high levels of HPV18 DNA does not appear to be clinically useful.
The study shows that p16(INK4a) has low sensitivity but acceptable specificity for evaluation of LSIL smears harbouring high-grade lesions. The marker needs to be further assessed as an adjunct to other tests in an attempt to improve the triage of LSIL cytology smears.
The Abbott test performed similarly to HC2 and is unlikely to be affected by ethnicity. Abbott combined HPV detection and HPV 16/18 genotyping is found to provide enhanced sensitivity and specificity for triage of ASC-US.
The low false-positive rate (high specificity) and the high sensitivity of the AHPV makes this assay suitable for use as a primary assay for detecting cervical disease in a screening setting.
Distinguishing the high absolute risk for cervical precancer in HPV16-positive women from the lower risk posed by other oncogenic HPV types might have clinical implications.
Criterion standards that miss the same CIN 2 or worse as the screening tests likely cause inflation of the sensitivity of those tests.
Based on the ALTS data, the authors found no evidence to support the existence of HPV-negative LSIL as a distinct biologic entity related to the risk of cervical carcinoma. Such results appear to represent cytologic misinterpretations or falsely negative HPV tests.
Among recipients of hematopoietic cells from an HLA-identical sibling, the IL10 -592A allele is a marker of a favorable outcome after transplantation.
Our results demonstrate that steroid tapering within the first 30 days of ECP treatment in aGVHD and response to ECP in acute and chronic GVHD are the only variables influencing response and survival, respectively.
In this preliminary trial, thalidomide appeared to be safe and effective for the treatment of chronic GVHD. A trial comparing thalidomide with prednisone in patients with newly diagnosed chronic GVHD will be required to demonstrate its relative efficacy.
These prespecified subgroup analyses appeared to support the idea that beta-carotene supplementation may reduce risk of prostate carcinoma among those with low baseline levels. Further follow-up of this population will help determine whether these findings are valid.
In CVD vitamin E acts as first risk discriminator, vitamin C as second one; optimal health requires synchronously optimized vitamins C + E, A, carotenoids and vegetable conutrients.
Long-term supplementation with alpha-tocopherol substantially reduced prostate cancer incidence and mortality in male smokers. Other controlled trials are required to confirm the findings.
Emerging hints that prostate inflammation may contribute to prostatic carcinogenesis will provide opportunities for the discovery and development of new drugs and strategies for prostate cancer prevention.
The soy-based dietary supplement utilised in this study was shown to delay PSA progression after potentially curative treatment in a significant fashion. More extensive studies of the supplement may be indicated.
It is likely that only through a prospective randomized trial can the question of the efficacy of granulocyte transfusions in treating fungal infections be conclusively answered.
For patients with high risk recurrent acute myeloid leukemia undergoing intensive salvage therapy, antifungal prophylaxis with fluconazole was not superior to standard prophylaxis only.
Antifungal prophylaxis with low-dose L-AmB proved to be feasible and effective in our trial.
LDA appears to be safe and to reduce early systemic fungal infections in BMT recipients. Improved survival was observed among LDA recipients, but this was not directly attributable to the prevention of fungal infection.
An oral, twice-daily regimen of capecitabine is effective and well tolerated when used as first-line chemotherapy in older patients (> or = 55 years) with advanced/metastatic breast cancer, and is suitable for outpatient therapy.
As the first long-term randomized trial to examine the effectiveness of calcium and vitamin D in protecting against decline of physical functioning in older women, the results did not support benefit.
Calcium/vitamin D supplementation neither increased nor decreased coronary or cerebrovascular risk in generally healthy postmenopausal women over a 7-year use period.
Among healthy postmenopausal women, calcium with vitamin D supplementation resulted in a small but significant improvement in hip bone density, did not significantly reduce hip fracture, and increased the risk of kidney stones. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Supplementing the diet of men >50 years of age with reduced-fat calcium- and vitamin D3-enriched milk may represent a simple, nutritionally sound and cost-effective strategy to reduce age-related bone loss at several skeletal sites at risk for fracture in the elderly.
This study is the first prospective trial confirming the beneficial effect of HRT on prevention of peripheral fractures in non-osteoporotic postmenopausal women. The effect of low-dose Vit D remains to be proved.
CYP19 polymorphism was not associated with circulating E2 levels, BMD values, or fracture risk in these early postmenopausal Finnish women. If such an association exists in women, it may become apparent in older age groups.
Improving calcium and vitamin D nutritional status substantially reduces all-cancer risk in postmenopausal women. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Calcitriol is not an effective treatment for established postmenopausal osteoporosis.
The administration of a calcium plus vitamin D chemopreventive regimen resulted in several changes in adenomatous tissue that may have contributed to reduced polyp formation.
These data provide additional support of an inverse association between high levels of calcium intake and colon cancer risk.
Our results do not support an association between 25(OH)D and total cancer mortality, although there was an inverse relationship between 25(OH)D levels and colorectal cancer mortality.
Intake of 2000 IU/day of Vitamin D(3), and, when possible, very moderate exposure to sunlight, could raise serum 25(OH)D to 52 ng/ml, a level associated with reduction by 50% in incidence of breast cancer, according to observational studies.
The evidence to date suggests that daily intake of 1000-2000 IU/day of vitamin D(3) could reduce the incidence of colorectal with minimal risk.
Cholecalciferol is almost twice as potent as ergocalciferol in increasing serum 25(OH)D, when administered either by mouth or im. 25(OH)D plays a role in modulating serum PTH.
These results confirm that warfarin is associated with a high bleeding rate in patients with venous thromboembolism and cancer. Prolonged treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin may be as effective as oral anticoagulants and may be safer in these cancer patients.
Tinzaparin was more effective than AVK in achieving re-canalisation of leg thrombi. Long-term tinzaparin was at least as efficacious and safe as AVK for preventing recurrent VTE, especially in patients with cancer.
For the treatment of acute venous thromboembolism, a fixed dose of dabigatran is as effective as warfarin, has a safety profile that is similar to that of warfarin, and does not require laboratory monitoring. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The results of this meta-analysis indicate that a 3-month course of LMWH is as effective and safe as a corresponding period of OA treatment, and may thus be considered as a valuable alternative option for patients in whom OA treatment appears contraindicated or problematic.
Although limited by small sample size, REVIVE provides valuable information on the incidence of recurrent VTE, major bleeding and problematic issues associated with therapy of VTE in children.
All of the currently used approaches to grading levels of evidence and the strength of recommendations have important shortcomings.
These results suggest that there are differences between lobectomy and pneumonectomy for lung cancer in terms of recovery and limitation of exercise capacity.
The poorer neonatal outcomes of ART singletons compared with non-ART singletons are significant enough to impact healthcare resource consumption. The high costs associated with ART multiple births add to the overwhelming clinical and economic evidence in support of single embryo transfer.
Clomiphene citrate and tamoxifen are equally effective in inducing ovulation. Although data regarding pregnancy rates and outcome are limited, there does not appear to be a significant benefit of one medication over the other.
Ginseng has variable glycemic effects, in which the PPD:PPT-ginsenoside ratio might be involved. But the low variance explained suggests the involvement of other unmeasured ginsenoside or non-ginsenoside components.
These results strongly suggest that Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer has non-organ specific preventive effect against cancer, providing support for the previous case-control studies.
Calcium supplementation is associated with a significant - though moderate - reduction in the risk of recurrent colorectal adenomas.
It is concluded that calcium supplementation decreases the tumor yield at the site of end-to-end colonic anastomosis and in the rest of the colon and small bowel (excluding the duodenum).
Follow-up colonoscopies in patients with adenomas should include careful examination of the proximal colon. The time interval between follow-up examinations could probably be extended beyond three years in patients who have only one or two distal adenomas.
Long-term use of multivitamins may substantially reduce risk for colon cancer. This effect may be related to the folic acid contained in multivitamins.
Calcium supplementation and vitamin D status appear to act largely together, not separately, to reduce the risk of colorectal adenoma recurrence. VDR genotype does not appear to be associated with risk.
Large or proximally located adenomas are important indicators of recurrence of advanced lesions. Because most recurrences were detected in the proximal colon, careful surveillance of this area is warranted.
MBSR-C may be a beneficial intervention for reducing stress, anxiety, cortisol levels, and symptoms in advanced-stage cancer patients and may also benefit caregivers.
Nurse-delivered CBTI appears to be beneficial for BCSs' sleep latency/efficiency, insomnia severity, functioning, sleep knowledge, and attitudes more than active placebo, with sustained benefit over time.
New cancer treatment modalities such as IMRT and concomitant CRT have had minimal effect on prevalence of ORN. No studies to date have systematically addressed impact of ORN on either quality of life or cost of care.
The use of multidisciplinary team communications and careful extraction selection by prognosis and symptomatology regardless of preexisting dental pathologies, atraumatic extraction procedures, and meticulous follow-up can lower both extraction and osteoradionecrosis rates.
Single agent maintenance therapy improves overall survival, though statistical significance was only noted with 'switch' maintenance.
Patients with advanced NSCLC may benefit from third-line treatment. The best candidates can be identified using standard prognostic factors, such as PS, and disease control after first- and second-line treatments.
There is evidence to suggest that maintenance treatment with erlotinib or pemetrexed has clinically relevant and statistically significant advantages over treatment with placebo or observation in patients with advanced NSCLC.
Maintenance therapy with either a continuous or a switch strategy significantly increases OS and PFS compared with placebo or observation. However, the benefits must be balanced against toxicity.
Combination of paclitaxel and bevacizumab is feasible and demonstrates an acceptable toxicity profile and a high response rate. These observations should be useful in planning future clinical trials with this combination therapy.
Treatment with imatinib for patients with ovarian cancer in second CCR or greater did not prolong the PFS beyond the historical estimate.
BEV is generally well tolerated after multiple prior cytotoxic regimens and results in significant clinical benefit among women with recurrent ovarian cancer.
Sorafenib and gemcitabine are well tolerated in combination; further evaluations in pancreatic and ovarian cancers are warranted.
The 1-year CR rate after percutaneous treatment of early HCC was significantly better with RFA than with PEI but did not provide a clear survival advantage in cirrhotic patients.
We found LA and RFA to be equally effective. However, RA appears more suited to patients with small HCC nodules and in Child-Pugh class A.
TAE has a limited use in suppressing local recurrence when performed before PEIT but not before RFA.
The initial experience with laparoscopic ultrasound-guided RF ablation of hepatic tumours indicates its safety and therapeutic potential in patients with inoperable hepatic tumours.
Hepatic arterial balloon occlusion during RFA is useful for extending the area of ablation in RF-induced lesions, and the procedure tended to decrease tumour recurrence from the same subsegment of ablated tumour.
RFA is more useful than PMCT for the treatment of small HCC because it is minimally invasive and achieves a low local recurrence rate, high survival rate, and extensive necrosis after only a few treatment sessions.
Octreotide is not indicated for the routine postoperative management of patients with neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas.
Octreotide was able to reduce significantly the incidence of pancreatic fistula after elective pancreatic resections.
The potent somatostatin analogue vapreotide does not appear to decrease postoperative complications after major pancreatectomy in patients without chronic pancreatitis.
Our results suggest that octreotide is not necessary for all patients undergoing pancreatic resection; it could be useful when the main pancreatic duct is less than 3 mm in diameter and when pancreatoduodenectomy is completed by pancreatojejunostomy.
These data demonstrate that the prophylactic use of perioperative octreotide does not reduce the incidence of pancreatic fistula or total complications after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Prophylactic octreotide use in this setting should be eliminated, at a considerable cost savings.
The routine use of octreotide after pancreaticoduodenectomy for malignancy cannot be recommended.
Hyperbaric oxygen offers a noninvasive therapeutic alternative in the management of radiation cystitis. It appears to produce good short-term benefits but it often does not produce definitive long-term cure of the disease process.
Topical application of formalin soaked pledgets is an effective method of controlling localized bleeding secondary to radiation cystitis.
To date we have not armed any active procedure to control radiation-induced refractory hemorrhagic cystitis in terms of efficacy, invasiveness, and adverse effects. Therefore, in consideration of our clinical results, hyperbaric oxygen therapy appears to be useful for radiation cystitis.
There are no prospective trials up to date showing the benefit of HBO to urinary disorders caused by radiation cystitis. The positive results of our retrospective study should encourage clinicians to initiate prospective studies with the use of HBO in the treatment of radiation cystitis.
Hyperbaric oxygenation may improve postoperative outcomes when given before planned open operations in patients with previous therapeutic pelvic irradiation and a history of radiation related complications.
SEGT did not prolong survival. It improved quality of life, including treatment of and protection against depression.
Differences in disease course between the control and treatment groups appeared to be independent of any differences in medical treatment received.
The BT group showed improved sleep quality over time and better sleep (diary). Perceptions of improved sleep quality over time are not consistently associated with diary or actigraph, or result in lower fatigue.
This evaluation of a free cancer supportive care program initiated in a hospital outpatient setting provides initial evidence of patient satisfaction and improvement in quality of life.
Empirically derived search strategies can achieve high sensitivity and specificity for retrieving sound treatment studies and review articles from PsycINFO.
This technique offers the pediatric surgeon an opportunity to maintain a high standard of quality care while using home health agency personnel to minimize cost. This program is safe, effective, and associated with a good outcome and a high degree of family satisfaction.
Data in the abstract that are inconsistent with or absent from the article's body are common, even in large-circulation general medical journals.
This method is safe and appropriate for use in children younger than 12 years.
Step sectioning of larger DCs may reveal associated odontogenic cell nests in some cases but does not lead to the detection of formerly missed ameloblastic cells. Thus, unicystic ameloblastomas are not misdiagnosed if only two slides are prepared for routine diagnosis of DCs.
Results of this trial support the view that a protocol of frequent laboratory tests and roentgenography after primary treatment for breast cancer does not improve survival or influence health-related quality of life. Routine use of these tests should be discouraged.
In the current study, rectal bleeding after MRI-guided prostate brachymonotherapy was infrequent, and urethral and bladder toxicity is reported to be rare and may be attributed to the urethral-sparing technique of the MRI-guided approach.
Patients with a family history of prostate cancer have a greater risk of the disease. In this select group of patients a positive family history was not associated with an earlier age at cancer diagnosis or a different histological grade of tumor.
The administration of low-dose flutamide (125 mg) was clinically effective in treating PSA recurrence after definitive treatments for prostate cancer, and was well tolerated. Further investigation in a phase III trial is warranted.
After treatment for localized prostate cancer more than half of men use erectile aids, especially when they are significantly bothered by dysfunction. This is most pronounced after radical prostatectomy and in men with significant comorbidity.
The UCLA-PCI is responsive to change in assessing HRQOL in men treated for prostate cancer.
Although patients treated with BTM and RP have a different spectrum of side-effects, their overall long-term QoL is similar, with urinary and sexual function being the primary determinants of this outcome. Men treated with BTC have a worse QoL.
This study suggests a similar cost profile in France for IB and RP but with different HRQOL and side effect profiles. Those findings may be used to tailor localized prostate cancer treatments to suit individual patients' needs.
Patients with organ-confined and, therefore, curable prostate cancer can be identified. Well-performed radical prostatectomy, radiation, and cryotherapy are alternative treatments for the management of localized prostate cancer.
Our short-term results with IR and CSAP suggest a significant adverse effect on erectile function. Our results suggest that enhanced preservation of potency should not be used as an enticement in the promotion of IR or CSAP.
The use of supplemental EBRT in men with low-risk prostate cancer treated with brachytherapy has decreased since 2001. This change in practice patterns suggests gradual adoption of the 1999 ABS practice guidelines.
: AC therapy was associated with an improvement in biochemical control in patients with prostate cancer who received RT with curative intent. The effect was most prominent in patients who had high-risk disease. Cancer 2010. (c) 2010 American Cancer Society.
Conservative treatment is generally ineffective in the management of large urinary fistulas. Surgical intervention offers symptomatic relief and improved quality of life in most patients.
Perioperative costs of BXRT with 125I seeds are substantially higher than RRP in the treatment of localized prostate cancer, primarily because of the cost of the seeds.
The findings reported here are suggestive that short gap times are safe.
Primarily on the basis of the results from men treated with simultaneous radiation using the transperineal technique, the definition of disease freedom for radiotherapy should be men who achieve and maintain a PSA nadir of 0.2 ng/mL or less.
There was no statistical difference in the 2-year PSA failure-free survival for potentially curable patients managed definitively with surgery or radiation therapy when a retrospective comparison stratifying for the pretreatment PSA and bGl was performed.
Despite only partial prostatic irradiation using intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging-guided brachytherapy, similar 5-year estimates of PSA control were found for both brachytherapy and RP-managed patients.
While general health related quality of life was mostly unaffected by the 3 most common treatments for prostate cancer, there were differences in bowel, urinary and sexual function. This information may aid patients in the decision making process.
These results support the need for physicians to offer patients access to information on the effect of treatment for early-stage prostate cancer on erectile function before and after treatment.
Compared with men who were younger than the median age of 73 years, men aged > or =73 years with localized prostate cancer who received brachytherapy and NHT had an increased risk of ACM compared with men who did not receive NHT.
The IMRT and (125)I produce similar outcomes, although IMRT appears to have less acute and late toxicity.
Unlike after surgery or EBRT, BMI is not associated with PSA failure in men treated with brachytherapy for prostate cancer. This raises the possibility that brachytherapy may be a preferred treatment strategy in obese patients.
Men with a prediagnosis prostate specific antigen velocity of 2.0 ng/ml per year or greater are at increased risk for cancer progression following brachytherapy or external beam radiation compared to men with a prostate specific antigen velocity of less than 2.0 ng/ml per year.
Therapy with curative intent is common in contemporary patients with prostate cancer who initially choose watchful waiting. Age and percentage positive biopsy cores are independent predictors of such intervention, with PSA doubling time also an independent predictor.
The image fusion of the pelvic CT scan and ProstaScint scans helped identify regions within the prostate at high risk of local failure, which were targeted with additional seeds during implantation.
At a median follow-up of 36 months, ProstaScint-guided transperineal brachytherapy results in a high probability of actuarial 4-year biochemical disease-free survival for patients with localized prostate cancer.
Dose intensification to occult tumor targets without increasing rectal toxicity may be achieved using SPECT/CT ProstaScint. Additional research to define the role of molecular imaging in prostate cancer is warranted.
Our results suggest that radical prostatectomy is available for both organ-confined and non organ-confined advanced prostate cancer. Postoperative radiotherapy combined with hormonal therapy is especially useful for patients in pT3 with PDA.
Because there were no differences between the groups in acute and late toxicities, we believe that BV can be planned and delivered to the dominant intraprostatic lesion without increasing toxicity. It is too soon to say whether a boost technique will ultimately increase local control.
This prospective study revealed the differences in the QOL after RRP and PPB. These results will be helpful for making treatment decisions.
This prospective study revealed the differences in the HRQOL after an RRP and PPB. Disease-specific HRQOL is clarified by using EPIC survey. These results will be helpful for making treatment decisions.
Epididymitis is an uncommon postimplant complication occurring in 1% of a large patient cohort. That epididymitis patients had greater preimplant AUA scores is consistent with a retrograde infection route, at least in some cases.
These results indicate that interstitial permanent brachytherapy is safe and effective for Japanese patients with localized prostate cancer. The import of matured techniques developed in Western countries might allow bypass of the trial-and-error process in Japanese institutions.
Pulsed dose rate brachytherapy plus EBRT is effective in treating localized prostate cancer, with acceptable toxicity. However, a median 5-year PSA-PFS follow-up is required before providing a solid recommendation. This preliminary information supports continued use.
Supplemental EBRT may lower the threshold for rectal toxicity after prostate brachytherapy. Morbidity can be minimized by observing rectal constraints.
EBRT plus LDR BT has acceptable morbidity and, with 5-year followup, provides excellent cancer control even in high-risk patients.
Computed tomography-guided transischiorectal brachytherapy allows accurate placement of radionuclide seeds in prostate glands of all sizes. The early results, as judged by serum PSA, are encouraging.
Although there is no shortage of unsubstantiated claims regarding predisposing factors to postimplant morbidity, the risk of urinary retention and long-term urinary dysfunction is probably multifactorial in nature and only crudely defined by known clinical variables.
AUR after urethral-sparing MRI-guided prostate brachytherapy is volume dependent and is self-limited despite very large prostate gland volumes.
The SIRS may identify patients who are at high risk for prolonged retention after prostate brachytherapy. A prospective validation study of the SIRS is planned.
Despite its relative safety, radiation therapy for prostate cancer has a significant incidence of colorectal complications. Overall, BT has a significantly lower incidence of acute and late toxicities than EBRT.
Fear of prostate cancer recurrence imposes a substantial burden in patients before and after treatment. Understanding the fear of cancer recurrence associated with different treatments can help physicians better counsel patients and promote psychological well-being.
With a median follow-up of 9 months, 125I seeds embedded in a vicryl suture or 103Pd seeds can be safely implanted in the prostate and periprostatic tissue with a high probability of prostate bed seed fixity and a low incidence of radioactive seed embolization to the lungs.
Our results indicate that the 5-year biochemical outcome with a hormone-naive prostate brachytherapy approach that uses multiple periprostatic seeds is not dependent on Gleason score 3+4 versus 4+3 histologic features.
Dysuria is common after brachytherapy but is typically mild. Prophylactic alpha-blockers gave significantly lower maximum dysuria scores but did not affect the time to the resolution of dysuria. The maximum IPSS after the implant was the best predictor of the resolution of dysuria.
The ADT improved 10-year bPFS without statistical impact on CSS or OS. Death as a result of cardiovascular/pulmonary disease and second malignancies were more than twice as common as prostate cancer deaths. Strategies to improve cardiovascular health should positively impact OS.
Men < or =50 years of age have favorable biochemical and functional outcomes following brachytherapy. Depending on risk group assignment, brachytherapy with or without supplemental therapies should be considered a viable option for all healthy men regardless of age.
The results of this study have indicated that BT and RRP have meaningfully different profiles in the recovery of general QOL. The differences in the recovery of disease-specific HRQOL were pronounced during the first 12 months after treatment.
Our findings suggest that acute myeloid leukemia incidence is a greater concern for patients treated with EBRT than brachytherapy for localized or locally advanced prostate adenocarcinoma.
Endo-rectal coil MRI is not sufficiently accurate to influence the treatment of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. Therefore, we advise against routine use of this imaging modality in staging such cases.
BT for both low-risk and selected intermediate-risk cancers achieves exceptional cure rates. Even with dose escalation, it will be difficult for EBRT to match the proven track record of BT seen over the past decade.
The results stress the need for well-considered administration of NHT before BT and the need for reporting the use of NHT in studies dealing with BT-related toxicity.
BT was associated with higher urinary, but lower rectal toxicity. The risk of treatment-associated erectile dysfunction did not differ between these methods.
The poor prognosis subset of PSA < or =10 ng/mL prostate cancer patients benefit from dose escalation. A dose response is not demonstrated for prostate cancer patients with pretreatment PSA < or =10 ng/mL and other favorable features.
Pretreatment PSA levels, and biopsy Gleason score determined outcome in this study cohort. Biochemical failure rates in this study cohort are similar between PPB, RT, and RP as monotherapy for clinically localized prostate cancer.
The excellent long-term results and low morbidity, and the many advantages of prostate brachytherapy over other treatments, show that brachytherapy is an effective treatment for clinically organ-confined prostate cancer.
More work is needed to evaluate the impact of radiotherapy and other treatments on the quality of life of patients and their partners to allow adequate informed consent to be given.
A very small proportion of patients treated with 3D CRT had significant rectal morbidity related to RT, supporting the use of conformal treatment planning and dose delivery as a mechanism to minimize complications in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Despite relatively short follow-up times it seems justified to conclude that proton beam irradiation of prostate cancer can improve bNED rates by 10% and decrease Grade 2 late effects by more than 10%. There were no Grade 3 and 4 late effects.
These results support EBRT followed by brachytherapy boost as a safe and effective method for dose escalation in the treatment of prostate cancer.
This data suggest that patients need not be concerned about being a radiation risk to the general public following their procedure.
Interactive, ultrasound-guided transperineal brachytherapy results in a low PSA failure rate, high negative biopsy rate, and is associated with low morbidity and preservation of erectile function.
Biopsy results support the use of brachytherapy without external beam irradiation for patients with low risk features and highlight the importance of achieving an adequate implant dose.
Optimal 125I prostate implants should deliver a D90 of 140-180 Gy, on the basis of postimplant dosimetry. Doses of <140 Gy are associated with increased biochemical failure, and doses >180 Gy with a small increase in long-term urinary symptoms.
The 10-year DSS rate supports the efficacy of brachytherapy. Patients dying with disease within 10 years after treatment harbor inherently aggressive cancer with high Gleason scores and short DT.
Trimodality therapy results in excellent local control that alters patterns of failure, resulting in similar actuarial biochemical and distant failure rates. Most failures appear to be distant and exhibit biologically aggressive behavior.
Biologically effective dose equations provide a method of comparing different isotopes and combined therapies in the brachytherapy management of prostate cancer. The effects of BED on FFPF and posttreatment biopsy demonstrate a strong dose-response relationship.
Seed embolism to the lungs is a rare event when patients undergo implantation using the real-time method. Although in our series migration was slightly greater with I-125 than with palladium-103, no negative effect was seen on the postimplant dosimetry results.
Neoadjuvant hormonal therapy has its greatest benefit in patients receiving brachytherapy who have a large prostate and an International Prostate Symptom Score of 15 or greater.
Higher radiation doses are required to achieve local control following PPB. A BED of >200 Gy with an alpha/beta ratio of 2 yields 96.9% local control rate. Failure to establish local control impacts survival.
I(125) or Pd(103) brachytherapy, as a boost combined with EBRT, continues to result in high rates of biochemical control at 10 years. Different risk group classification schemes lead to different BRFS results.
I(125) or Pd(103) brachytherapy combined with supplemental EBRT results in excellent 15-year biochemical control. Different risk group classification schemes lead to different BRFS results in the high-risk group cohorts.
A steady decrease in sildenafil response was seen with increasing duration after RT. Several factors were predictive of sildenafil failure.
The use of ADT appears to be associated with an increased risk of death from cardiovascular causes in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer.
Laparoscopic salvage radical prostatectomy after irradiation is feasible with no more morbidity than an open procedure. A longer followup is mandatory to evaluate its usefulness.
The conformation number is a convenient instrument for indicating the degree of conformality by a single numerical value. Treatments with a conformation number greater than 0.60 might be termed conformal radiotherapy.
Patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer choosing PI, RT, or RRP appear to have improved 5-year bRFS and delayed salvage therapy compared with LRP.
At our institution the average total charges for transperineal prostate brachytherapy are significantly higher than those for radical retropubic prostatectomy.
The 3-year actuarial biochemical control rates for low early-stage prostate cancer are similar after (125)I and (103)Pd.
The data from the current study indicate that radiation dose escalation improved the bNED rate for the intermediate-risk group. IMRT caused less acute and late GU toxicity than BRT or EBRT + BRT.
The establishment of appropriate reference ranges for free, complexed and total PSA as well as the ratios will allow the practicing urologist to incorporate these new parameters into the diagnostic evaluation of men at risk for early, potentially curable prostate cancer.
It appears that prostate cancer results from an interplay between endogenous hormones and environmental influences that include, most prominently, dietary fat.
Laparoscopic bypass is not only feasible but also highly effective in relieving biliary obstruction with good postoperative results in both benign and malignant conditions.
UDCA significantly decreases the risk for developing colorectal dysplasia or cancer in patients with UC and PSC.
PELF is significantly more active than FAMTX and deserves further research in the adjuvant setting.
XP showed significant noninferiority for PFS versus FP in the first-line treatment of AGC. XP can be considered an effective alternative to FP.
This regimen appears to prolong survival in patients with advanced gastric cancer, and the reduction of the methotrexate dose does not seem to compromise its efficacy.
The addition of cisplatin to high doses of 5-fluorouracil and epirubicin resulted in a statistically significant better survival of treated patients.
Our findings show that nephrotoxicity was more severe in patients treated with heptaplatin 400 mg/m(2) than with cisplatin 60 mg/m(2) when it was combined with 5-FU. Measures to more effectively prevent nephrotoxicity should be developed for the safe use of heptaplatin.
Biochemical modulation of 5-FU by FA using the dose and schedules tested has only modest activity in the treatment of advanced gastric cancer.
Our trial demonstrates that fluorouracil and epirubicin as single agents have comparable but insufficient activity in advanced gastric cancer.
Capecitabine and oxaliplatin are as effective as fluorouracil and cisplatin, respectively, in patients with previously untreated esophagogastric cancer. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN51678883 [controlled-trials.com].).
These results revealed that there was no advantage of low-dose continuous infusion of CDDP with 5-FU in terms of response rate and clinical toxicity in our present study.
Although the FP regimen showed a significantly higher response rate and a longer time to progression than the FAM or FU regimens, a survival benefit was not observed.
AIT with TALs in combination with chemotherapy was effective in prolonging survival in patients with stage IV gastric cancer.
Our results demonstrate a better efficacy and feasibility of SP than IP for advanced gastric cancer patients, with or without a target lesion.
Bolus injection of doxorubicin is superior to eight-hour doxorubicin infusion in the EAP regimen in terms of survival, TTP and PD without being significantly more toxic.
Both combinations were active, with acceptable safety profiles. Irinotecan/5-FU/FA was selected as the most effective combination for investigation in a phase III trial in advanced gastric cancer.
PVI 5-FU is a safe, effective form of palliation for patients with advanced oesophago-gastric cancer although the addition of MMC adds little extra benefit.
Cigarette smoking and high body mass index are significant, independent risk factors for esophageal and gastric cardia adenocarcinomas. Studies designed to understand the mechanisms whereby smoking and high body mass influence these tumor types are needed.
In a group of patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma but without severe liver disease, lipiodol chemoembolization reduced tumor growth, often caused acute liver failure, and did not significantly improve survival.
Patients with unresectable HCC receiving Lipiodol-epirubicin or Lipiodol-131I show good tumor localization, acceptable toxicity, and comparable survival benefit at 6 and 12 months with either modality.
Combination therapy with TACE-PEI was superior to PEI alone in the treatment of patients with small HCC tumors, especially for patients with HCC tumors measuring < 2 cm in greatest dimension.
The survival rates did not differ between the patients who underwent intraoperative adjuvant therapy and postoperative adjuvant therapy for satellite lesions of non-resectable HCC.
RFA is an effective and micro-invasive treatment for liver cancer. Compare with TACE alone, TACE in combination with RFA may decrease liver function damage and improve QOL of HCC patients.
LTA proves to be the most effective treatment for HCC < 50 mm, combined therapy is the best choice for nodules =/> 50 mm since complete necrosis is achieved in almost all cases and better total survival in the treated patients.
Cirrhotic patients developing a HCC during the last 5 years of surveillance survived longer than previously, as a consequence of improved management of the tumor and complications of cirrhosis.
In postmenopausal women with hormonally sensitive ABC, anastrozole should be considered as the new standard first-line treatment.
Letrozole 2.5 mg offers longer disease control than aminoglutethimide and letrozole 0.5 mg in the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer, previously treated with anti-oestrogens.
EXE, compared with MA, is projected to increase survival at a modest added cost. If treatment with EXE delays or defers initiating more costly therapies, then it may even be cost saving.
Fulvestrant was tolerated well and was at least as effective as anastrozole in the second-line treatment of patients with ABC. This new hormonaltherapy may provide a valuable treatment option for ABC in postmenopausal women.
The longer time to disease progression with letrozole versus tamoxifen was achieved without increased time with adverse events and resulted in more quality-adjusted survival for patients on letrozole.
Exemestane is well tolerated and active in the first-line treatment of hormone-responsive MBC. An ongoing EORTC phase III trial is comparing the efficacy, measuring time-to-disease progression, of exemestane and tamoxifen.
The results show letrozole at a dose of 1.0 mg once daily to be more effective in treating postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer than fadrozole at 1.0 mg twice daily, with similar safety and tolerability profiles.
The use of anastrozole improved the survival as well as the quality of life, showing no side effects in this group of patients.
Letrozole has definite antitumor activity as third-line hormonal therapy for women with metastatic breast carcinoma at doses of 0.5 and 2.5 mg per day. It is an effective and generally well-tolerated hormonal agent.
This study confirms modest activity of fadrozole hydrochloride in a heterogeneous group of patients with breast carcinoma treated at three different dose levels.
Inhibition of the aromatase system, in particular with third-generation aromatase inhibitors and inactivators, appears to be associated with statistically significant improved survival of patients with advanced breast cancer compared with standard hormonal treatments.
These data are consistent with previous studies that indicate a familial risk of multiple myeloma, but they explain little of the race-related difference in incidence rates.
Among patients with newly diagnosed myeloma, survival in recipients of a hematopoietic stem-cell autograft followed by a stem-cell allograft from an HLA-identical sibling is superior to that in recipients of tandem stem-cell autografts. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
High-dose therapy with autologous stem-cell rescue is an effective first-line treatment for patients with multiple myeloma who are younger than 65 years of age.
Our findings suggest that danaparoid may have promise for the prophylaxis of VOD after allogeneic HSCT and further randomized studies are warranted.
This 12-month aerobic jumping and circuit training intervention completely prevented femoral neck bone loss in premenopausal breast cancer patients, whereas no effect on BMD was seen in postmenopausal women.
The data suggest that weight-bearing aerobic exercise attenuates declines in BMD and that aerobic and resistance exercise improve aerobic capacity and muscle strength at a time when women generally show marked declines in functional ability.
Cancer-related cachexia is associated with a loss of muscle volume but not of functionality, which can be a rationale for muscle training.
Routine use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors as the first line treatment of depressive illness may greatly increase cost with only questionable benefit.
Treatment with sodium selenite is well tolerated and easy to deliver. Additionally, our results suggest that sodium selenite has a positive effect on secondary-developing lymphedema caused by radiation therapy alone or by irradiation after surgery.
Mucositis is a frequent, severe toxicity in patients treated with RT for head and neck cancer. While it appears that mucositis may lead to hospitalization and treatment interruptions, its overall impact on outcomes has not been adequately investigated.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy enables liver resection in some patients with initially unresectable colorectal metastases. Long-term survival is similar to that reported for a priori surgical candidates.
Hepatectomy, if possible, is indicated in patients with hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma if there are no extrahepatic metastases and if the primary disease is controlled. It is indicated only in carefully selected patients with metastases from gastric carcinoma.
Adjuvant chemotherapy significantly improved survival and disease-free survival after hepatic resection for colorectal metastases. It did not decrease recurrence rate in the remnant liver.
During resection of liver colorectal metastasis, microscopic lymph node involvement occurred in 15% of the patients and was associated with a poor 5-year survival. Hepatic lymph node dissection should be performed systematically to select high-risk patients.
Neoadjuvant chemoradiation is safe, effective, and well tolerated. Postoperative lymph node status is the only independent predictor of recurrence and survival.
Following preoperative CMT, the incidence of residual MLN involvement remains significant and parallels increasing pT stage. Therefore, the standard of care for locally advanced distal rectal cancer should continue to include formal rectal resection (TME).
The survival benefit seen in this trial was entirely consistent with the NSCLC meta-analysis and subsequent similarly designed large trials. The information on quality of life and cost should enable patients and their clinicians to make more informed treatment choices.
Combination chemotherapy increased objective response and toxicity rates compared with single-agent chemotherapy. Survival was prolonged only modestly with combination chemotherapy but not significantly so when more active single agents were used.
These data suggest that young adult patients with low-grade glioma who undergo a neurosurgeon-determined GTR have a > 50% risk of tumor progression 5-years postoperatively, warranting close follow-up and consideration for adjuvant treatment.
Greater attention should be devoted to ensuring the appropriate use of analytic methods for economic analyses, and readers should make note of the methods used when interpreting the results of economic analyses.
If the end point is clear margins, Mohs is cost comparable to TSE performed by otolaryngologic surgeons. Some caution is needed when evaluating the cost of facial and auricular NMSC treatment because the choice of repair can significantly affect the cost conclusions.
Eyelid basal cell carcinomas with ill-defined borders or recurrent tumours are well suited for Mohs' micrographic surgery. The extensions of the tumours are difficult to determine even in some less aggressive subtypes such as superficial and nodular/micronodular basal cell carcinomas.
This metastatic basal cell carcinoma demonstrated lymphatic and hematogenous dissemination to the lungs and lymph nodes. A dense accumulation of microvessels was present at the boundary of the tumor nests and dermal stroma and in the stroma surrounding the tumor in the lymph node.
LYMPHA represents a valid technique for primary prevention of secondary arm lymphedema with no risk of leaving undetected malignant disease in the axilla.
Microsurgical LVA have a place in the treatment of peripheral lymphedema, and should be the therapy of choice in patients who are not sufficiently responsive to nonsurgical treatment.
Our results suggest that adjuvant chemotherapy may reduce recurrences and prolong overall survival in patients at stage IB NSCLC deemed radically operated. Despite being difficult to accept, the use of adjuvant chemotherapy might have better long-term results.
Our results suggest that the addition of adjuvant MVP chemotherapy may reduce the incidence of distant metastasis and prolong the disease-free survival of the patients with stage I NSCLC after surgery.
Cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy improves survival among patients with completely resected non-small-cell lung cancer.
Adjuvant vinorelbine plus cisplatin has an acceptable level of toxicity and prolongs disease-free and overall survival among patients with completely resected early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer.
The UFT regimen was feasible. However, we have not observed any survival benefit in the adjuvant group. Larger trials are needed to confirm the effect of UFT to patients with resected NSCLC.
Adjuvant chemotherapy with uracil-tegafur improves survival among patients with completely resected pathological stage I adenocarcinoma of the lung.
The COPAC chemotherapy as postoperative treatment failed to improve overall survival in patients with resected NSCLC receiving postoperative radiotherapy but decreased the pattern of metastatic progression, mainly in the N2 patients.
As compared with radiotherapy alone, adjuvant radiotherapy and chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide does not decrease the risk of intrathoracic recurrence or prolong survival in patients with completely resected stage II or IIIa non-small-cell lung cancer.
Postoperative chemotherapy is associated with improved survival compared with that after surgical intervention alone. Selected patients with completely resected non-small cell lung cancer should be offered chemotherapy.
We conclude that the administration of 30 mg of M plus 25 mg of P significantly improves the exercise tolerance of patients with COPD, without significantly impairing the mental capabilities of the subjects. The utility of this regimen over longer time periods needs to be evaluated.
IgA antibodies against EBV capsid antigen and neutralizing antibodies against EBV DNase are predictive of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
The trans-oral brushing system fulfills the characteristics of a noninvasive, sensitive, specific detection method suitable for routine, large-scale ambulatory NPC risk assessment for high-risk NPC populations.
Demonstration of EBV LMP1 in the nasopharyngeal swab specimens detected NPC with a sensitivity of 94.7% and specificity of 100%. This study confirms the reliability and feasibility of nasopharyngeal swab in the predicting and screening of NPC.
The sensitivity of this PCR screening method is similar to that of the serologic method. Combining both methods can greatly increase the specificity, indicating this new method is a good supplement to the serologic screening of this endemic disease.
We found little evidence that estimates of treatment effects in observational studies reported after 1984 are either consistently larger than or qualitatively different from those obtained in randomized, controlled trials.
Intravenous ivIGMA had no beneficial effects in neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies and sepsis syndrome and septic shock.
Trastuzumab increases the clinical benefit of first-line chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.
Individually, lysosomal storage disorders are rare genetic diseases. However, as a group, they are relatively common and represent an important health problem in Australia.
These results suggest that permethrin-impregnated bedsheets may be protective against malaria prevention but further studies with greater power are required to confirm this.
These results show that nets treated with insecticide have a substantial impact on morbidity when distributed in a public health setting.
In African children with malaria, the presence of impaired consciousness or respiratory distress can identify those at high risk for death.
Low serum vitamin D status was highly prevalent in black children with SCD-SS. Vitamin D status was associated with season and dietary intake.
Adherence to cotrimoxazole prophylaxis should be reinforced in HIV positive patients and it should be reassessed if these patients present with acute episodes of malaria.
In this study malaria was not more frequent or more severe in children with progressive HIV-1 infection and malaria did not appear to accelerate the rate of progression of HIV-1 disease.
HIV-1 blood viral burden is higher in patients with P. falciparum malaria than in controls and this viral burden can, in some patients, be partly reduced with antimalarial therapy.
Opsonic phagocytosis may represent a novel correlate of protection against PAM. HIV infection may increase the susceptibility of multigravid women to PAM by impairing this clearance mechanism.
Results presented here demonstrate that both HIV-1 exposure and HIV-1 infection are associated with increased prevalence of SMA during acute P. falciparum infection, independent of parasite density.
In this setting of low antifolate resistance, TS was highly effective in preventing falciparum malaria infection and disease and did not appear to select for SP-resistant parasites.
HIV-1-infected malaria patients had a slower hematological recovery after successful parasite clearance. Malaria preventive measures should be targeted to this high-risk group.
These findings suggest that absorption of dietary plant sterols suppressed bile acid synthesis, thereby diminishing their cholesterol-lowering efficacy. In contrast, plant stanols reduced plant sterol absorption and maintained their cholesterol-lowering efficacy.
Sustained efficacy of cholesterol reduction and long-term compliance of PSE intake were demonstrated in this study.
Although gemfibrozil with either colestipol or lovastatin favorably altered lipoprotein levels in patients with hypertriglyceridemia and familial combined hyperlipidemia, the combination of gemfibrozil and lovastatin appeared superior overall.
Combined supplementation with ascorbate, beta carotene, and alpha-tocopherol is not superior to high-dose alpha-tocopherol alone in inhibiting LDL oxidation. Hence, alpha-tocopherol therapy should be favored in future coronary prevention trials involving antioxidants.
Daily consumption of low-fat plant sterol dairy product favourably changes lipid profile by reducing LDL-cholesterol, and may also have an anti-oxidative effect through a reduction of plasma isoprostanes.
These findings provide further confirmation for the notion that the supplementation of diet with antioxidative vitamins and selenium increases the oxidation resistance of atherogenic lipoproteins in human plasma.
The protection against coronary heart disease afforded by a diet rich in fish may be attributed to the lowering of serum homocysteine levels by the n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids of fish oils.
Supplementation with alpha tocopherol was associated with only a minor decrease in the incidence of angina pectoris. Beta carotene had no preventive effect and was associated with a slight increase of angina.
Both test diets are suitable (alone or in combination) for treatment of hypercholesterolaemia.
Fish oil supplements do not lower plasma cholesterol levels in middle-aged men with hypercholesterolemia without elevated triglycerides. They should not be recommended as a method to lower plasma cholesterol in these patients.
Transfusion greatly reduces the risk of a first stroke in children with sickle cell anemia who have abnormal results on transcranial Doppler ultrasonography.
Discontinuation of transfusion for the prevention of stroke in children with sickle cell disease results in a high rate of reversion to abnormal blood-flow velocities on Doppler studies and stroke. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Deferasirox is the first oral agent for the treatment of iron overload in the United States. It appears to be effective and well tolerated. However, its long-term efficacy and safety remain to be established.
Three easily identifiable manifestations of sickle cell disease that may appear in the first two years of life (dactylitis, severe anemia, and leukocytosis) can help to predict the possibility of severe sickle cell disease later in life.
In group I, clinical response to hydroxyurea was better in patients with alpha-thalassemia, XmnI (+/+) and a higher mean fold increase in gamma mRNA expression. In group II, only one-third of patients showed a partial response.
Genetic markers such as Xmn I polymorphism and alpha-gene deletions were not always beneficial for the response to hydroxyurea therapy. Thus many more markers and a larger cohort need to be studied to predict the response in these patients.
IPT of malaria provides substantial protection against malaria in children who sleep under an ITN. There is now strong evidence to support the integration of IPTc into malaria control strategies in areas of seasonal malaria transmission.
Intermittent preventive treatment for malaria with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine can reduce malaria and anaemia in infants even in seasonal, high transmission areas, but concern exists about possible rebound in the incidence of malaria in the second year of life.
Seasonal IPT with SP+PQ in children is highly effective and well tolerated; the combination of two long-acting drugs is likely to impede the emergence of resistant parasites.
Monthly treatment with SP+3AQ is a highly effective regimen for seasonal IPT. Choice of this regimen would minimise the spread of drug resistance and allow artemisinins to be reserved for the treatment of acute clinical malaria.
Artemether is a satisfactory alternative to quinine for the treatment of severe malaria in adults.
Artemether is as effective as quinine in the treatment of cerebral malaria in children.
We show that Rheb acts as a novel mediator of the nutrient signaling input to mTOR and is the molecular target of TSC1 and TSC2 within mammalian cells.
Pulmonary function is abnormal in 90% of adult patients with Hb-SS. Common abnormalities include restrictive physiology and decreased DLCO. Decreased DLCO may indicate more severe sickle vasculopathy characterized by impaired hepatic and renal function.
Under the conditions of this study, we were unable to find a clinical benefit to using aprotinin or EACA to reduce perioperative blood loss or transfusion requirements during major orthopedic surgery in cancer patients.
Based on this experience, EACA may be a valuable adjunctive therapy in the treatment of patients with thrombocytopenic hemorrhage.
TXA should be considered for routine use in primary knee and hip arthroplasty to decrease blood loss.
Tranexamic acid is safe and effective in reducing blood loss and blood use in a wide variety of cardiac surgical patients.
Features of our previous study and results of the present trial may be helpful in defining indications for bone marrow transplantation in children with sickle cell disease.
Artemisinin-naphthoquine is non-inferior to artemether-lumefantrine in PNG children with falciparum malaria but has greater efficacy against vivax malaria, findings with implications in similar geo-epidemiologic settings within and beyond Oceania.
In poorly growing patients with X-linked hypophosphatemic rickets, growth hormone therapy combined with conventional treatment improves final height, phosphate retention, and radial bone mineral density, but it does not influence degree of body disproportion.
Long-term rhGH administration may benefit growth, phosphate retention, and bone density in patients with RHR, without evidence of side effects.
More rapid administration of large potassium phosphate boluses is effective and safe for correcting hypophosphatemia in ICU patients with preserved renal function if baseline serum potassium is below 4 mmol/l.
Tafenoquine doses as low as a single 600-mg dose may be useful for prevention of relapse of P. vivax malaria in Thailand.
The protective efficacy of tafenoquine (200 mg per day for three days, followed by weekly 200 mg maintenance doses) is similar to that of the weekly standard of care (mefloquine, 250 mg).
The heptavalent pneumococcal polysaccharide-CRM197 conjugate vaccine is safe and efficacious in the prevention of acute otitis media caused by the serotypes included in the vaccine.
Reports from laboratories provide valuable information on trends and antibiotic resistance in bacteraemia and show a worrying increase in resistance to important antibiotics.
In this randomized prospective study, physical therapy alone appeared to be as effective as hip core decompression followed by physical therapy in improving hip function and postponing the need for additional surgical intervention at a mean of three years after treatment.
Brief training in coping skills followed by minimal therapist contact may lead to a range of benefits when children practice with their skills on a consistent basis.
Our data show that SCD admissions are rising in England, particularly in London. Over half of patients admitted with SCD were discharged within 24 h, suggesting that some of these admissions could be prevented through better ambulatory care of patients.
Iron chelation therapy with deferoxamine or with deferasirox was equally effective in decreasing iron burden and malondialdehyde. The possible differential effect of the two chelators on inflammation warrants further investigation.
In Kenyan children the combination of atovaquone and proguanil hydrochloride has efficacy comparable with that of halofantrine for treatment of acute uncomplicated multidrug-resistant falciparum malaria and is associated with a lower rate of adverse events.
Salmonella is a common cause of sepsis and osteomyelitis in patients with SCD in our locality. Empirical antimicrobial therapy should cover the likely pathogens, including Salmonella species.
Whole cell vaccines are more effective than the Ty21a and Vi vaccines but are more frequently associated with adverse events. Whether the added efficacy of the whole cell vaccines outweighs their toxicity will depend on the setting in which vaccination is used.
Painful crisis and acute chest syndrome were the most common complications associated with high fever, but other important associated features included bacteraemia and urinary tract infection. Enteric Gram negative organisms accounted for 50% of positive blood cultures.
Anti-salmonella prophylaxis requires assessment in the management of bone necrosis. Anti-salmonella agents may be indicated in undiagnosed septic conditions in sickle cell disease pending culture results.
IV magnesium appears to decrease the LOS for children with sickle cell pain crisis.
The results demonstrate that this specifically tailored strategy is relevant to this setting, given the unique conditions of this African country.
Hemopexin treatment is a promising novel therapy to protect against heme-induced cardiovascular dysfunction in hemolytic disorders.
First-line therapy with IV ketorolac and IV fluids resulted in adequate resolution of pain in 53% of episodes with acute VOP. A reported 4 or more painful sites and an initial VAS score greater than 70 were predictors of the likelihood to need additional IV analgesics.
These findings underscore the need for randomized controlled trials to address whether or not the risk of inhibitor in PUPs with hemophilia A differs between rFVIII and pdFVIII.
The results of this study have important implications in light of the recent NIH CF Consensus Panel recommendations that CF carrier testing be offered to all high risk adults and all couples planning a pregnancy or seeking prenatal testing.
Most people offered a cystic fibrosis test opportunistically wish to be tested, and the responses of those tested indicate that knowledge of carrier state would be considered in future reproductive decisions.
Worrying about cystic fibrosis and the perception of having little personal control over the disease facilitated treatment adherence. It is clear that patients perceive exercise therapy differently from other forms of treatment.
There is considerable support among GPs for community carrier screening for CF in general practice, particularly in the context of family planning services. Knowledge and experience of CF increase GPs' willingness to offer it themselves.
Younger children with CF and boys with CF were more anxious than the healthy controls, and girls with CF expressed less anger than their healthy peers. Effects sizes however were small. Low FEV(1) was associated with low self-concept and high anxiety in adolescent patients.
Despite the time lapse between screening, informing, and pregnancy (mean 15 years), the information was well conserved and resulted in testing of the partner. The screening programme was effective in motivating requests for prenatal diagnosis.
The low ranking by GPs of CF screening against other programmes, together with the need for support if they were to be involved, suggests that it is currently impractical to move the programme from its existing site in antenatal clinics.
It is possible to take detailed family histories and provide genetic counselling advice in primary care with minimal training of clinical primary care staff. The service is acceptable to patients, does not induce anxiety and has little effect on numbers of patients referred.
Chloroquine should no longer be used to treat children presenting with Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Benin.
Weekly low-dose CQ after effective antimalarial treatment is not effective in improving recovery from postmalarial anaemia.
The combination of CQ/SP was an efficacious treatment for uncomplicated malaria in Gambian children in this study, but the frequent occurrence of multidrug-resistant parasites suggests that this observed efficacy is not sustainable.
Children who have iron-deficiency anemia in infancy are at risk for long-lasting developmental disadvantage as compared with their peers with better iron status.
The fitness cost of CQ resistance works against the persistence of resistant parasites through the dry season.
These analyses show that a low prevalence of inflammation has little influence on the distribution of ferritin, and 2 common indicators of inflammation do not perform equally well in identifying persons who may have elevations in ferritin due to inflammation.
Iron assessment can be greatly improved by a more intense marrow examination. This provides a useful iron status classification which is of particular importance in areas where there is a high rate of inflammatory conditions.
New diagnostic cutoffs for TfR and ZnPP, based on ROC curve analyses, may improve the performance of these indexes in defining iron status in children. Significant ethnic differences in TfR and ZnPP suggest that separate cutoffs may be needed for black and white children.
These data suggest that patients with grade A or C new sea fan classification should not be initially treated but observed.
Compliance with prophylactic antibiotic therapy in children with sickle cell disease is highly variable and its evaluation is problematic.
Education for families with children with sickle cell disease must be improved. Specialised information and training are needed for doctors working in areas with a high prevalence of the disorder.
Both isotonic saline and 5% albumin are effective when used as replacement fluid in PET for the treatment of neonatal polycythaemia. Isotonic saline, which is cheaper and free of infection, should be the replacement fluid of choice.
Low-dose aspirin can safely prevent thrombotic complications in patients with polycythemia vera who have no contraindications to such treatment.
Hydroxyurea is effective in preventing thrombosis in high-risk patients with essential thrombocythemia.
Hydroxyurea plus low-dose aspirin is superior to anagrelide plus low-dose aspirin for patients with essential thrombocythemia at high risk for vascular events.
The ICT Malaria P.f/P.v test can be used in Sri Lanka in the absence of microscopists.
Based on the high PPV and NPV, HRP2-based RDTs are likely to be the best diagnostic choice for areas with medium-to-high malaria transmission rates in Africa.
During on-call hours, the use of RDTs was observed to increase and RDTs changed the diagnosis in 12% of laboratories. No established protocol for RDT use was, however, observed in the UK. A protocol that needs to be validated in the laboratory setting is suggested.
Our data demonstrate that pLDH assay, given its accuracy, rapidity (10-15 minutes), ease of performance and interpretation, can be a useful tool for the detection of malaria in countries where both plasmodial species are co-endemic and where laboratory support is limited.
Good results for sensitivity and specificity were obtained for malaria diagnosis using NOW ICT and OptiMAL, with NOW ICT showing higher sensitivity and specificity values than OptiMAL.
The sensitivity and specificity of the three tests did not present statistically significant differences. However, the thick blood smear was recommended as the standard test, mainly due to its low cost.
The ICT Pf/Pv test has a poor sensitivity for P. falciparum malaria and its capacity to detect parasitemias under 500 parasites/ul is minimal. As a confirmatory test, the ICT Pf/Pv has a good sensitivity for P. falciparum. Its use for patient follow-up is not recommended.
Palutop+4 performed moderately for the detection of P. falciparum and P. vivax, but sensitivities were lower than those of three-band malaria RDTs.
The Parasight-F test is a simple and accurate test for the diagnosis of P. falciparum infection. The test could be of particular value in the diagnosis of malaria in travelers returning from endemic areas.
CHWs can safely and effectively use RDTs in their management of febrile children; however, cost-effectiveness of RDTs is limited in zones of high malaria prevalence.
Regular transfusion which lowers stroke risk is associated with a significant reduction in PFH. A role for PFH in promoting stroke in SCD should be investigated.
Compliance with aggressive chronic transfusion reduces the frequency of acute chest syndrome and pain episodes.
Transcranial Doppler is sensitive and specific for the detection of arterial vasculopathy of sickle cell disease. Screening should include a transorbital examination of the distal internal carotid artery as well as examination using the transtemporal approach.
Patients with risk factors for silent infarcts should be evaluated for cerebrovascular disease. If evidence of infarction is found, consideration must be given to therapeutic intervention. At present, the appropriate treatment has not been determined.
It is possible to perform TCD screening of most children with SCA. TCD screening is effective in reducing first stroke incidence in these children.
For children with SCA and stroke, hydroxyurea effectively prevents secondary stroke and serial phlebotomy leads to complete resolution of transfusional iron overload.
Intravenous iron sucrose increases the Hb level more rapidly than oral ferrous sulphate in women with postpartum IDA. It also appears to replenish iron stores more rapidly. However, this study was not large enough to address the safety of this strategy.
rHuEpo administration is useful for a more rapid amelioration of hematological indices in women with postpartum anemia. Further, the dose given in this study was not associated with significant side-effects.
A universal Fe supplementation strategy was effective in reducing the prevalence of anaemia among low-income postpartum women.
The CHO-KLAT(35) is a reliable and valid measure of QoL for boys with haemophilia.
In this context, larviciding reduced malaria prevalence and complemented existing protection provided by insecticide-treated nets. Larviciding may represent a useful option for integrated vector management in Africa, particularly in its rapidly growing urban centres.
Our study shows the therapeutic similarity of Ceredase and Cerezyme. Cerezyme has the advantage of being theoretically unlimited in supply and free of potential pathogenic contaminants.
High-dose Tyr supplementation cannot be recommended as an "alternative" treatment for patients with PKU after relaxation or termination of strict dietary adherence.
Tyrosine supplementation of this type does not appear to alter neuropsychological performance in individuals with phenylketonuria.
Amino acid tablets are an effective and relatively popular protein substitute in older children, teenagers, and adults with PKU.
Eculizumab is an effective therapy for PNH.
Although it is associated with a significant but manageable risk of bleeding, systemic thrombolysis is a highly effective treatment for reversing venous thromboses in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.
PNH is a rare cause of arterial stroke but it should be considered in young stroke patients with abnormal blood findings. As yet, there is no effective antithrombotic treatment.
The presence of a paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria clone in severe aplastic anemia is associated with low morbidity and mortality, and specific measures to address clinical paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria are seldom required.
This trial does not support the use of AZ+AS as treatment for malaria or acute febrile illness in children in areas of Africa with high levels of existing antimalarial drug resistance.
Our data suggest that azithromycin-artesunate is an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment for patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Bangladesh.
Iron chelation therapy may hasten the clearance of parasitemia and enhance recovery from deep coma in cerebral malaria.
Clearance of parasites was better with either pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine or chlorproguanil and dapsone than with chloroquine. Longest protection was obtained with pyrimethamine and sulfadoxine.
These results substantiate the importance of careful evaluation, educational planning, and medical intervention for CNS-related complications in children with sickle cell disease.
Brief cognitive screening measures, if properly constructed, may be an effective means of identifying children with silent cerebral infarct. Future prospective studies should be pursued to assess the utility of cognitive screening for silent cerebral infarcts in SCD.
Hydroxyurea decreases the severity of anemia in some patients, and it may decrease the frequency of VOC. Its short-term hematologic toxicity is minimal.
Silent infarct identified at age 6 years or older is associated with increased stroke risk.
Contrary to some claims, pregnancy outcome in SC disease is generally benign compared with SS disease.
This treatment is simple, cheap, and self-administered. It should be proposed to all patients with SCD in all geographic areas as part of an educational program for active prevention of this severe complication.
Venous insufficiency may contribute to the development of leg ulcers in a minority of sickle cell anemia patients. A minority of sickle cell anemia patients with chronic leg ulcers can be shown to have leg venous reflux by duplex ultrasound imaging.
Leg ulcers are a major complication of SCD, given their severe consequences and frequent association with other specific organ damage, and they constitute in their 'prolonged' form a severely disabling condition that remains an important therapeutic challenge.
beta-Thalassemic major patients with transfusional iron overload can be safely and effectively treated with an alternate therapy of DFO/DFP with a progressive fall in the mean serum ferritin and significant improvement of myocardial performance.
This new approach confirms that L1 could be more effective than DF in removal of myocardial iron.
A final SF level < 2500 micrograms/l was achieved in 52% children. Severe arthropathy and agranulocytosis may necessitate permanent discontinuation of therapy.
We conclude that late commencement of desferrioxamine and noncompliance are associated with greater iron loading and an increased risk of heart disease.
According to the ACP guidelines, there was significant unnecessary blood use in the hospital surveyed. The guidelines provide a useful framework for assessing transfusion practices but may require further refinement to apply to a broader spectrum of clinical settings.
Improved laboratory services, reduction of unnecessary transfusions, and increased recruitment of volunteer donors are critical for improving the appropriate and timely use of blood and reducing transfusion-associated HIV transmission.
A conservative transfusion regimen was as effective as an aggressive regimen in preventing perioperative complications in patients with sickle cell anemia, and the conservative approach resulted in only half as many transfusion-associated complications.
These recommendations aim to increase awareness of this disorder among clinicians in a wide range of specialties and provide practical advice on diagnosis and treatment.
Although our response rates were remarkable, this survey showed that treatment-related morbidity could also be very important. Therefore, it is pertinent to bear in mind these potential side-effects in order to decide the most appropriate therapy for each particular patient.
Representing the largest collection of consecutive AHA cases to date, EACH2 facilitates the analysis of a variety of open questions in AHA.
Higher doses of factor per se do not necessarily produce improved orthopaedic outcomes. However, full time prophylaxis is likely to produce the best orthopaedic outcome. The most critical factor for a good orthopaedic outcome is the reduction of joint bleeds.
Intensive FVIII treatment for surgery at first exposure leads to a higher inhibitor risk in hemophilia A patients compared with intensive treatment for bleeding.
Further evaluations of the efficacy of aspartame for sickle crisis and crisis prevention appears to be warranted.
Results of this exploratory study suggest that INO may be beneficial for acute vaso-occlusive crisis. These preliminary results warrant further investigation.
The incidence of major vascular complications following central venous cannulation in patients with liver disease and coagulopathy was low in this audit. In liver disease the presence of a raised INR alone should not be considered a contra-indication to central venous cannulation.
Placement of TCVCs in patients with a platelet count between 25,000/dL and 50,000/dL and/or an INR between 1.5 and 2 is safe even without coagulation product transfusions.
Very-low-quality evidence suggests that plasma infusion in the setting of massive transfusion for trauma patients may be associated with a reduction in the risk of death and multiorgan failure. A survival benefit was not demonstrated in most other transfusion populations.
Passive reporting of TACO grossly underestimates its actual prevalence. Educational efforts are needed to enhance physician recognition of TACO reactions.
Transfusion of fresh frozen plasma is associated with an increased risk of infection in critically ill patients.
There is wide variation in FFP use by ICU clinicians, and a high proportion of current FFP transfusions are of unproven clinical benefit. Better evidence from clinical trials could significantly alter patterns of use and modify current treatment costs.
Asthma and BHR are more common in children with SCD than in ethnic matched controls, and atopic asthma appears to be associated with recurrent ACS. Early and effective anti-asthma therapy might reduce the pulmonary morbidity associated with SCD.
Our results indicate that young adults with SCD should be discouraged from smoking and their asthma aggressively treated.
This study indicates that respiratory and physical training could be a promising adjunct to medical treatment in severe PH. The effects add to the beneficial results of modern medical treatment.
This study suggests that high doses of calcium-channel blockers in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension who respond with reductions in pulmonary-artery pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance may improve survival over a five-year period.
These data suggest that the use of rituximab combined with FVIII is a potentially useful treatment for patients with inhibitors resistant to standard immune tolerance, although sustained inhibitor eradication is uncommon.
AICC prophylaxis at the dosage evaluated significantly and safely decreased the frequency of joint and other bleeding events in patients with severe hemophilia A and factor VIII inhibitors. (Funded by Baxter BioScience; Pro-FEIBA ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Results suggest that a low starting dose of ruxolitinib with escalation to 10 mg BID may be appropriate in myelofibrosis patients with low platelet counts.
INCB018424 was associated with marked and durable clinical benefits in patients with myelofibrosis for whom no approved therapies existed. (Funded by Incyte; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Conclusions in trials funded by for-profit organizations may be more positive due to biased interpretation of trial results. Readers should carefully evaluate whether conclusions in randomized trials are supported by data.
Although rectal bleeding is common, only minority of patients seek medical of symptoms seems to be most important factor in deciding whether to consult a doctor for rectal bleeding.
While overall industry sponsorship is associated with higher success rates than publicly-sponsored trials, the difference seems to have disappeared over time.
Our review indicates that industry funding may not be a major threat to bias in the reporting of the raw adverse effects data. However, we are concerned about potential bias in the interpretation and conclusions of industry-funded authors and studies.
MQ proved to be highly efficacious--both clinically and parasitologically--for use as IPTp. However, its low tolerability might impair its effectiveness and requires further investigations.
Adding a third dose of ITPp-SP halved the risk of placental malaria, LBW, and preterm births in all gravidae, compared with the standard 2-dose regimen, in this area of highly seasonal transmission with low levels of SP resistance.
IPTp with SP was not associated with a significant impact on MTCT of HIV. Maternal anaemia was an independent risk factor for MTCT.
Intermittent preventive treatment with three doses of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine is a more effective strategy to prevent maternal anemia during pregnancy in Burkina Faso.
Iron supplementation in a therapeutic dose in term breast fed LBW infants results in a marginal increase in haemoglobin. The functional benefit of this haemoglobin rise requires further evaluation.
Weekly supplementation of 20 mg Fe, 20 mg Zn, or both does not benefit growth among infants 6-12 months of age in rural Bangladesh, a region with high rates of anemia and zinc deficiency.
Combined iron-zinc supplementation had a positive effect on iron and zinc status in infants. However, the positive effect of zinc alone on SZn and weight would indicate a negative interaction of iron when added to zinc supplements.
In addition to recurrent parasitic infection burden, the children may have multiple micronutrient deficiencies. Therefore, it may be interesting to study appetite and food intake of young toddlers in relation to health and linear growth performance in poor environments.
Iron supplementation improves the efficacy of iodized salt in goitrous children with iron deficiency. A high prevalence of iron deficiency among children in areas of endemic goiter may reduce the effectiveness of iodine prophylaxis.
This study does not support the hypothesis that reduced exposure to parasites may modulate the development of bronchiolitis early in life.
The prevalence of anemia in adolescent Nepalese girls is high. Supervised iron and folic acid therapy once a week is an effective alternative to daily administration and helps lower the prevalence of anemia in adolescent girls.
When compliance can be ensured, DI and DMM foodLETs are efficacious in improving and WMM is efficacious in maintaining iron stores among Indonesian infants.
Supplementation with vitamin A increased serum retinol concentration of boys. Iron supplementation did not change Hb. This appeared to be due to poor compliance, and partly related to side effects.
Both dosages of elemental iron were equally effective in increasing hemoglobin levels, and reducing anemia prevalence. Fortification of school meals was shown to be an effective, low cost and easy to manage intervention.
Fortification had no effect on hemoglobin levels of the children studied. This finding could be partially due to inadequate flour intake and/or low bioavailability of dietary iron.
Contrary to our hypothesis, vitamin A significantly decreased erythropoietin concentration. The most important effect of both vitamin A and SP was the rapid reduction of inflammation. Vitamin A also mobilized iron from stores and stimulated the production of new erythrocytes.
Universal supplementation with iron sulfate from six to 12 months of age was effective in increasing serum Hb and decreasing risk of anemia only when administered on a daily basis.
Sprinkles 12.5 mg FF dose is as efficacious as higher doses of iron in Sprinkles or DROPS in increasing hemoglobin. Sprinkles FF 12.5 mg is recommended as it has fewer reported side effects and better compliance compared to DROPS.
The adherence, acceptability and haematological response to flexible administration over 4 months were found preferable to daily.
Antimalarial control and iron supplementation throughout pregnancy should be increased to reduce the incidence of infant anaemia and improve child development and survival.
The fact that less than half the children receiving ferrous sulfate recovered from anemia at the end of follow-up, along with the development of anemia in many untreated, previously non-anemic infants, suggests the need for effective control strategies.
There are no developmental or growth advantages in children given iron supplemented formula, but a benefit for a minority who were anaemic, or the possibility that a benefit may emerge at a later age, cannot be excluded.
Supplementation with zinc, iron, or both improved indicators of vitamin A status. The results of this study agree with previous observations of a metabolic interaction between zinc and vitamin A and suggest an interaction between iron and vitamin A metabolism.
This MM supplement had no additional effect on Hb concentration. Thorough studies are needed to evaluate the actual efficacy of the gruel before its introduction into household routine.
This regimen of supplementation did not result in consistent improvements in ratings of behavior in lead-exposed children over 6 months.
Daily supplementation with iron and/or zinc may be of limited usefulness for improving cognition in lead-exposed schoolchildren. However, these treatments may be effective in settings with higher prevalence of nutritional deficiencies or in younger children.
H pylori is neither a cause of IDA/ID nor a reason for treatment failure of iron supplementation in young Bangladeshi children.
The micronutrient-fortified beverage was beneficial in promoting growth and decreasing duration of common illnesses among middle-class residential schoolchildren who had adequate energy and protein intakes.
Weekly and daily supplementation improved hemoglobin, zinc, and retinol concentrations similarly. Neither intervention affected growth of the overall population, but growth of children stunted at baseline was improved through both types of supplementation.
This review did not document a positive effect of iron supplementation on the physical growth of children. The identified predictors of heterogeneity should be considered as exploratory and requiring confirmation, not conclusive.
Measures of both APP and CRP are needed to estimate the full effect of inflammation and can be used to correct ferritin concentrations. Few differences were observed between age and sex subgroups.
The current dosage of DP (6.4 mg/kg DHA and 51.2 mg/kg piperaquine phosphate) given over the course of 48 h is highly effective, safe, and well tolerated for the treatment of multidrug-resistant falciparum malaria, and its efficacy is not improved by the addition of more DHA.
Approximately 25 percent of patients with sickle cell disease have proteinuria. Treatment with enalapril reduces the degree of proteinuria in these patients, suggesting that glomerular capillary hypertension may be a pathogenic factor in sickle cell nephropathy.
Angiotensin blockade alone appears to effectively control proteinuria and stabilize kidney function in children. This may provide an alternative to more toxic therapies, especially corticosteroids, in children with glomerular disorders such as those associated with obesity.
Elevated TRV ≥ 2.5 m/second is significantly associated with proteinuria on longitudinal follow up in children with SCD.
Sickle nephropathy, manifested as persistent proteinuria, begins early in life, occurs in all forms of SCD, and is associated with severity of disease. Early detection of proteinuria may allow therapy to prevent progressive renal insufficiency.
Although eGFR and mGFR exhibited similar relationships to 22 baseline variables, the overall bias seen in the full cohort suggests that clinicians and researchers should exercise caution when interpreting eGFR slope as a marker of progression of kidney disease.
Having a dental infection complicated by a sickle cell crisis significantly increases the likelihood of hospital admission among adult SCD patients presenting to the ED.
Lovastatin offers an efficacious and well-tolerated treatment option for improving lipid profiles in adolescent girls with familial hypercholesterolemia.
Treatment with atorvastatin for 12 months was effective and safe for pediatric subjects with known familial hypercholesterolemia or severe hypercholesterolemia.
In this large cohort of FH children, the efficacy and tolerability of pravastatin therapy in real-life conditions was demonstrated to be similar to that in randomized controlled studies.
These findings indicate that in top sports performers only about 20% tolerate statin treatment without side-effects. Clinical decision making as to lipid lowering therapy thus becomes a critical issue in this small subgroup of patients.
Statin monotherapy is efficacious, well tolerated and safe in the short-term, although long-term safety remains unclear. Current evidence supports treatment of children at highest cardiovascular risk, but results of on-going, longer-term studies may extend these indications.
Observational data suggest a link between chronic statin use and increased risk of peripheral neuropathy. However, the risk appears to be small relative to the significant cardioprotective benefits.
These data suggest that individuals with elevated baseline liver enzymes do not have higher risk for hepatotoxicity from statins.
Persistent statin use was significantly protective for the incidence of cataract in men and women under 75 years of age.
Our results support previous observations that pravastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin at low-to-moderate doses are not associated with a significant risk of LFT abnormalities. Additional data are required to determine whether other statins have a similar safety profile.
In this genetically heterogeneous cohort of FH patients the mutation detection rate was significantly dependent on pre-treatment TC and triglyceride levels.
LDL receptor mutations only partly contributed to the variation of LDL cholesterol levels and cardiovascular burden in FH. Additional, so far unidentified, familial risk factors must underlie the differences of CVD risk, most likely independent of lipids and lipoproteins.
Addition of single-dose 0.75 mg/kg primaquine shortens the infectivity period of DHP-treated patients and should be considered in low-transmission regions that aim to control and ultimately eliminate falciparum malaria. Clinical Trials Registration. 
DB289 is a promising new antimalarial compound that could become an important component of new antimalarial combinations.
Treatment of asymptomatic carriers of P. falciparum with SP does not increase gametocyte carriage or density. Effective treatment of asexual parasitaemia in the dry season reduces gametocyte carriage to very low levels after 4 wk.
Prophylaxis with recombinant factor VIII can prevent joint damage and decrease the frequency of joint and other hemorrhages in young boys with severe hemophilia A. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Implantation of genetically altered fibroblasts that produce factor VIII is safe and well tolerated. This form of gene therapy is feasible in patients with severe hemophilia A.
An evidence-based clinical pathway for children and adolescents with moderate to severe exacerbations of acute asthma markedly decreases their rate of hospitalisation without increased return to emergency care.
Primary care clinicians should be aware that clinical signs may be unreliable when making diagnosis, prognosis and treatment decisions in pre-school children with cough. Future research should aim to further our understanding of how best to identify abnormal clinical signs.
The most useful clinical marker in predicting specific cough is the presence of a daily moist cough. Both chest examination and chest radiographic abnormalities are also useful in predicting whether children have a specific cause of their cough.
In Iran, HSCT has been successfully adapted in routine clinical care. Recently, new methods such as double cord blood and haploidentical transplantation have been used to treat many life-threatening diseases.
The lack of difference in gastro-oesophageal reflux between bolus and continuous feeding indicates that in healthy volunteers both methods are equally safe with respect to the risk of aspiration.
As a conclusion, the relation between gastroesophageal reflux and delayed gastric emptying cannot be ignored. Our results support delayed gastric emptying to be a pathogenetic factor in gastroesophageal reflux in infants and children.
Compared with placebo, omeprazole significantly reduced esophageal acid exposure but not irritability. Irritability improved with time, regardless of treatment.
In infant GORD, acid reflux associated TLOSRs are abnormally common and likely to be a major contributing factor to the pathophysiology of GORD. Infants with GORD do not have delayed GE.
The hypothesis of a correlation between reflux and chronic middle otitis of the serous-mucous type was confirmed in the present study. Adopting a preventive treatment strategy may be useful in reducing the possibility of ear involvement.
A strategy of right lateral positioning for the first postprandial hour with a position change to the left thereafter promotes GE and reduces liquid GER in the late postprandial period and may prove to be a simple therapeutic approach for infants with GER disease.
The use of pH metry alone cannot detect most GER incidents accompanied by respiratory symptoms and therefore does not appear to be suitable for this approach. The pH-independent IMP technique promises to be a reliable tool for presumably GER-associated respiratory symptoms.
Low-dose natural human IFN-alpha did not have beneficial effects on reducing the total ulcer burden among BS patients from Turkey. The study also showed that counting the number of ulcers rather than measuring the size would be adequate in future studies.
G-CSF has beneficial effects on the healing duration and pain severity of OU and GU of patients with BD. However, given the high cost, impractical preparation and inability to cure the disease, G-CSF treatment should be chosen only in selected patients.
The topical application of 0.2% HA gel seems to be an effective and safe therapy in patients with recurrent oral ulcers; the study supports the use of HA in BD with oral ulcers.
Treatment with levamisole and colchicine can result in a significant reduction of serum IL-6, IL-8 or TNF-alpha level in MCBD patients.
Thalidomide is effective for treating the oral and genital ulcers and follicular lesions of the Behçet syndrome. A dosage of 100 mg/d is as effective as a dosage of 300 mg/day.
Although pentoxifylline may have some benefit in the treatment of recurrent aphthous stomatitis, the benefit is limited. It may have a role in the treatment of patients unresponsive to other treatments, but cannot yet be recommended as a first-line treatment.
The results provide a clearer understanding of how to interpret BPRS total and percentage reduction scores in clinical trials with patients acutely ill with schizophrenia who are experiencing positive symptoms.
Very low employment rates are not intrinsic to schizophrenia, but appear to reflect an interplay between the social and economic pressures that patients face, the labour market and psychological and social barriers to working.
Further studies using standardized selective inclusion criteria and controlling for chronicity are needed. Research guidelines are discussed.
Negative symptoms are highly prevalent in adult outpatients with schizophrenia with a relevant economic impact on the healthcare system.
This meta-analysis supports the hypothesis that adding mirtazapine to treatment with antipsychotics can improve negative symptoms in schizophrenia. However, additional studies with more stringent negative symptom selection criteria and homogeneous use of antipsychotics are needed.
The results are consistent with other evaluations of child sexual abuse prevention programs, however the statistically significant though small gains suggest that the programs need to be presented in a more powerful manner.
The Safe Dates program shows promise for preventing dating violence among adolescents.
The Stay Safe Programme was an effective secondary prevention intervention deserving widespread implementation.
This school athletics-based dating violence prevention program is a promising approach to reduce perpetration and negative bystander behaviors that condone dating violence among male athletes.
Efforts to reduce antisocial behavior and suicidal ideation/behavior in adolescence, particularly early or severe manifestations of the behaviors, should consider the possible role of a history of maltreatment, especially the possibility of sexual abuse.
The effects of exposure to CSA and CPA on later educational achievement outcomes are largely explained by the social, family, and individual context within which exposure to abuse takes place.
Further research is required to look at the outcome of children of women who are at high risk of chronic or recurrent depression and of difficulties parenting; the postpartum period is the optimum time for identification and intervention.
Compared with other health problems, the burden of child maltreatment is substantial, indicating the importance of prevention efforts to address the high prevalence of child maltreatment.
CSA was not an uncommon experience in this cohort. Those most likely to be exposed to CSA were girls reared in families in families characterized by high levels of marital conflict and impaired parenting and in families having parents with adjustment problems.
The findings indicate that the influence of CSA on adverse long-term effects is mediated and influenced both by the severity of the abuse experiences and by a range of family and social background factors.
Results highlight the long-term physical health consequences of CSA and identify potential moderators to aid in the design of future research.
These results attest to the picture of violence as a common fact of inner-city life and to the demand that is placed on urban youths to accommodate in their psychological development to chronic threat and lack of safety.
LSA, and especially CSA under 13 years of age, are factors that should be considered in treatment of women with ADA and in psychiatric treatment of women.
Victims of child abuse (sexual and physical) and neglect are at increased risk for developing PTSD, but childhood victimization is not a sufficient condition. Family, individual, and lifestyle variables also place individuals at risk and contribute to the symptoms of PTSD.
The 1.5-mL CAA disinfection method offers blood services a rapid and effective donor arm disinfection procedure. In 2006, the 1.5-mL CAA procedure was implemented throughout the entire English blood service for all donations.
Both of these antiseptic kits were highly effective for skin preparation prior to drawing blood for cultures. The use of these kits may have contributed to the low contamination rate observed in this study.
The PDR Checklist may be useful in predicting which placements are at most risk of future disruption, allowing for targeted services and supports.
Placement in kinship foster care should be considered as a viable possibility.
Children placed into kinship care had fewer behavioral problems 3 years after placement than children who were placed into foster care. This finding supports efforts to maximize placement of children with willing and available kin when they enter out-of-home care.
Children in care are at high risk of mental health problems. Psychological support for the children and their carers is an essential secondary prevention strategy. Implications for service delivery are discussed.
The findings support the need for improved monitoring of the aggregate mental health needs of children who are permanent wards. Numerous implications for service delivery and future research are discussed.
There is a need for improving the system of health care for children in kinship care. There is also a need for additional research on this high-risk group of children.
The results of this randomized trial demonstrate the impact of a family-based intervention on the development of attention and positive affect.
These results point to areas of strength and vulnerability for youth in foster care and suggest areas for clinicians and caregivers of these adolescents to focus interventions towards harm reduction and enhancement of resiliency.
The findings extend research in the general population by suggesting that adverse childhood experiences contribute to worse mental and physical health and functional outcomes among adults with severe mood disorders.
Children in "mainstream" foster care are at greater risk of mental health problems, and are attracting greatest costs, but CAMHS are not successfully targeting these problems. CAMHS may need to develop new models of service delivery.
Similar to other children in kinship care arrangements, custodial grandchildren are reported by their caregivers to have higher levels of behavioral and emotional disturbances than children in the overall U.S. population.
Children living in households with 1 or more male adults that are not related to them are at increased risk for maltreatment injury death. This risk is not elevated for children living with a single parent, as long as no other adults live in the home.
These findings suggest that youth who reunify with their biological families after placement in foster care have more negative outcomes than youth who do not reunify. The implications of these findings for policy and practice are discussed.
The results suggest that there are some modifiable protective and vulnerability factors present shortly after maltreated youth are placed in foster care that predict their engagement in adolescent risk behaviors 6 years later.
Single-layer closure of nongaping, minor (< 3 cm) facial lacerations is faster than double-layer closure. Cosmetic outcome and scar width are similar in sutured wounds whether or not deep dermal sutures are used.
The subcutaneous suture following saphenectomy is unnecessary. A deterimental effect of an additional subcutaneous suture could not be demonstrated.
Subcutaneous tissue approximation with absorbable suture at closure of the abdominal incision during cesarean delivery appears to reduce the rate of postoperative wound disruption in patients with more than 2 cm of subcutaneous tissue.
This is the largest trial of the role of steroids in children with HSP. We found no evidence to suggest that early treatment with prednisolone reduces the prevalence of proteinuria 12 months after disease onset in children with HSP.
Serum albumin is often low in HSP patients without proteinuria, due to protein loss via the intestine. Although corticosteroids alleviate the symptoms, they seem not to alter the clinical course of HSP during 6 months of follow-up.
The general use of prednisone in HSP is not supported, but patients with disturbing symptoms may benefit from early treatment, because prednisone reduces extrarenal symptoms and is effective in altering (but not preventing) the course of renal involvement.
This study indicates that intermittent short courses of cyclosporine are effective in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis for up to 2 years while improving the safety profile relative to continuous cyclosporine monotherapy.
The treatment of psoriasis with etanercept led to a significant reduction in the severity of disease over a period of 24 weeks.
After 16 weeks, adalimumab demonstrated significantly superior efficacy and more rapid improvements in psoriasis compared with either methotrexate or placebo.
This study confirms the strong association between prior infection with S pyogenes and guttate psoriasis but suggests that the ability to trigger guttate psoriasis is not serotype specific.
Differential expression and regulatory functioning for inflammatory cytokine production by Foxp3+ Tregs may imply a different immunopathogenesis for plaque and guttate psoriasis.
Short-term rosuvastatin but not allopurinol administration decreases MMP-2 and -9 and increases TIMP-2 levels.
Greater reductions in LDL-C were achieved with rosuvastatin compared with equal doses of atorvastatin, enabling more patients with Type 2 diabetes to achieve European LDL-C goals.
Prevention of the development of severe AS needs to be tested in large randomized studies. Recruitment for the ASTRONOMER trial has been completed and results will be available at the end of 2008.
RSV and ATV were equally efficacious in achieving LDL-C treatment goals in patients with primary hyperlipidaemia at the initial dose and following dose titration. RSV seems to have a significantly higher HDL-C-raising effect, while ATV lowers serum uric acid levels.
Compared with alternate day dosing, daily dosing of rosuvastatin provides a statistically significant advantage in LDL-C reduction. However, the alternate day regimen may be a viable option for those patients in whom cost is a limitation to compliance.
The efficacy of rosuvastatin in reducing LDL-C is more effective than atorvastatin in the same dose, however, the safety data is similar between them in the period of 3-month follow-up.
Rosuvastatin reduced triglyceride levels and improved the overall atherogenic and atheroprotective lipid profiles in hypertriglyceridemic patients.
Rosuvastatin significantly slowed progression of carotid IMT at 12 months compared with pravastatin.
FA + statin in patients with mixed dyslipidemia reduces the prevalence of metabolic syndrome.
Mean lipid levels vary relatively little in the 4 days after an ACS and can be used to guide selection of lipid-lowering medication.
Our study on monocytes of diabetic-hypercholesterolemic patients, showing a reduced AT1R but not AT2R expression during rosuvastatin treatment, suggests that statin therapy may modulate favorably the AT1-AT2 receptor balance in subjects with coexistent type 2 diabetes.
Rosuvastatin 10 mg reduces lipid ratios more than equivalent and higher doses of other statins; switching to equal or lower doses of rosuvastatin produces significantly improved reductions in lipid ratios.
Both doses of rosuvastatin were more effective than pravastatin and simvastatin in meeting NCEP ATP II and EAS LDL-C targets. Rosuvastatin 10 mg was more effective than pravastatin and simvastatin in meeting NCEP ATP III targets.
A significantly greater proportion of T2DM patients achieved individual and combined lipid targets when treated with the combination of R + FA than corresponding-dose R monotherapies.
Rosuvastatin was more efficacious than atorvastatin in modifying lipids in patients with hypercholesterolemia and a high coronary heart disease risk.
Rosuvastatin 5 mg or 10 mg once daily is a well-tolerated and highly efficacious lipid-lowering therapy in postmenopausal women receiving HRT.
Rosuvastatin calcium at 10 mg/day was effective in lowering total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol and hs-CRP in hemodialysis patients.
Low-dose rosuvastatin was effective in improving hypo-HDL cholesterolaemia and may have renoprotective effects.
Simvastatin 40 mg, simvastatin/ezetimibe 10/10 mg and rosuvastatin 10 mg significantly reduced 8-epiPGF2a, oxLDL and Lp-PLA2 activity and mass to a similar extent.
 Two-year treatment with rosuvastatin inhibited progression of carotid IMT. Rosuvastatin also improved the plaque composition, and this qualitative change occurred relatively early after starting therapy. 
Statins can lower LDL cholesterol concentration by an average of 1.8 mmol/l which reduces the risk of IHD events by about 60% and stroke by 17%.
Statins have a clear role in primary prevention of CVD mortality and major events.
Content validity, construct validity, and reliability of the WHOQOL-100 in a population of adult Dutch psychiatric outpatients are good. The WHOQOL-100 appears to be a suitable instrument for measuring quality of life in adult psychiatric outpatients.
We suggest a regular, simple urethral dilation protocol for patients with recurrent bulbomembranous urethral stricture shorter than 2 cm, because this significantly allays the stricture recurrence rate, possibly eliminates the need for consecutive DVIU, and reduces morbidity.
Despite decreasing rates of urethral strictures with time the burden of urethral stricture disease is still significant, resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars spent and hundreds of thousands of caregiver visits yearly.
These findings suggest that temporal lobe abnormalities are present at the first hospitalization for schizophrenia and that low volume of the left posterior superior temporal gyrus gray matter is specific to schizophrenia compared with affective disorder.
Gray matter density is decreased in distinct focal areas in the brains of patients with schizophrenia or schizophreniform disorder. The decreased density in the left amygdala is more pronounced in older patients with schizophrenia.
Left medial frontal GM volume deficits were common in the groups with schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder, which may point to shared underlying pathological findings.
Neurological soft signs may be an easy-to-assess marker of region-specific structural brain deficits in adolescents with first-episode psychosis.
There are differing longitudinal gray matter changes in patients with schizophrenia during the first years of the illness as compared to healthy individuals. Some progressive gray matter changes in patients are related to functional outcome.
Gray matter differences in schizophrenia are most comprehensively elucidated using a large, diverse and representative sample.
Reductions in white matter integrity are present early in the course of the schizophrenia and localised in fascicule that connect brain regions implicated in the disorder.
Reduced integrity of the ALIC, uncinate fasciculus, and ATR regions is common to both schizophrenia and BD. These results imply an overlap in white matter pathology, possibly relating to risk factors common to both disorders.
Structural brain abnormalities were distributed throughout the cortex with particular decrement evident in gray matter. This feature is consistent with altered cell structure and disturbed neuronal connectivity, which accounts for the functional abnormality of psychosis.
If VBM is to be useful clinically or considered for use as a biomarker, there is a need for greater recognition of these issues and more uniformity in its application for the method to be both reproducible and valid.
Compared with a first-generation antipsychotic given in a moderate dose, clozapine offers substantial clinical benefits to treatment-refractory subjects who can be treated in the community. Advantages are seen in a broad range of symptoms but do not extend to negative symptoms.
This suggests that MRI brain scans are not an essential part of routine screening for psychotic patients.
The results of this study suggest that, at least for this subgroup of patients, early treatment with antipsychotic medications both decreases the immediate morbidity associated with schizophrenia, and prevents detrimental changes possibly related to prolonged untreated psychosis.
Prepubescent children treated with fluticasone propionate 50 microg and 100 microg administered twice daily for 1 year grew at rates similar to placebo-treated control subjects and at rates equal to expected growth velocity for age.
Twelve months of treatment with inhaled FP (100 microg twice daily) in preschool children aged 1 to 3 years with recurrent wheeze has no effect on growth and no other clinically important side effects but is more efficacious than SCG.
Ciclesonide 40-160 μg once daily is effective and well tolerated in children with persistent asthma; its efficacy and safety are unaffected by the use of a spacer. clinicaltrials.gov registration number: 
The long-term effects of FP and NS on BMD accrual and growth are similar among children with asthma. The benefit:risk ratio of FP may be considered superior to that of NS.
Ciclesonide demonstrated no detectable effect on childhood growth velocity, even at the highest dosage, which may ease concerns about systemic adverse events.
Regular use of budesonide afforded better asthma control but had a more systemic effect than did use of budesonide as needed. The dose of ICS could be reduced as soon as asthma is controlled. Some children do not seem to need continuous ICS treatment.
As compared with 400 micrograms of inhaled budesonide administered twice daily, 800 micrograms administered once daily in the morning has a sparing effect on short-term growth and collagen turnover.
Children with asthma who have received long-term treatment with budesonide attain normal adult height.
The regular use of low-dose inhaled corticosteroids is associated with a decreased risk of death from asthma.
Fluticasone is less likely to suppress adrenal function than beclomethasone at therapeutically equivalent doses. The baseline data also support the claim that spacer devices should be used for the administration of high doses of inhaled topical steroids.
This form of early home based intervention targeted to vulnerable families promotes an environment conducive for infant mental and general health and hence long-term psychological and physical well-being, and is highly valued by the families who receive it.
A simple health education intervention provided by nurses to the mothers in a busy clinical setting can be effective in the short-term to motivate the mothers to take actions to protect the children from exposure to passive smoking produced by the fathers.
A pediatric clinic smoking cessation intervention has long-term effects in a socioeconomically disadvantaged sample of women smokers. The results encourage implementation of evidence-based clinical guidelines for smoking cessation in pediatric practice.
The policy implications of this research are discussed, and recommendations are made for future research.
The statistical analysis supports the view that a client-centered intervention, aimed at increasing self-efficacy, exerts a positive effect on maternal smoking in the prevention of infant exposure to ETS, when applied in a routine clinical setting.
Further research is needed to devise more effective methods of using the pediatric health care setting to influence adult smoking behaviors.
Counselling was effective in reducing children's exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Similar counselling in medical and social services might protect millions of children from environmental tobacco smoke in their homes.
Asthma management education plus coaching can reduce ETS exposure more than expected from education alone, and decreases in the coached condition may be sustained for about a year. The delayed decrease in cotinine among controls is discussed.
Community health workers reduced asthma symptom days and urgent health services use while improving caregiver quality-of-life score. Improvement was greater with a higher-intensity intervention.
Maternal consumption of tobacco products can be reduced significantly by an advice of the paediatrician at least for a short time.
Educational interventions against smoking should be planned taking into account the difference in efficacy according to social class.
This intervention, implemented by clinic personnel as part of routine medical visits, was effective under these natural conditions across different types of clinic service.
There are certain circumstances when bed sharing should be avoided, particularly for infants under four months old. Parents sleeping on a sofa with infants should always be avoided. There is no evidence that bed sharing is hazardous for infants of parents who do not smoke.
Self-reports of smoking are accurate in most studies. To improve accuracy, biochemical assessment, preferably with cotinine plasma, should be considered in intervention studies and student populations.
There is likely to be a causal relationship between parental smoking and both acute and chronic middle ear disease in children.
Semuloparin reduces the incidence of thromboembolic events in patients receiving chemotherapy for cancer, with no apparent increase in major bleeding. (Funded by Sanofi; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
These results support the concept that anticoagulants, and particularly LMWH, may improve clinical outcomes in SCLC. Further clinical trials of this relatively non-toxic treatment approach are indicated.
These results confirm the value of anticoagulant treatment in SCLC, already suspected for warfarin and now proven for heparin, but the modes of administration and the biologic explanations for this activity still warrant further investigation.
Use of antithrombotic agents has reduced the rate of primary VTE, with minimal increases in bleeding risk in specific ambulatory cancer populations. Further investigation is needed to guide and narrow recommendations for primary VTE prophylaxis in ambulatory cancer patients.
Decisions regarding prophylaxis in nonsurgical patients should be made after consideration of risk factors for both thrombosis and bleeding, clinical context, and patients' values and preferences.
Asthmatic children with a genetic deficiency of GSTM1 may be more susceptible to the deleterious effects of ozone on the small airways and might derive greater benefit from antioxidant supplementation.
G significantly attenuated 'fog'-induced falls in FEV-1 (p < 0.001 compared with P) and showed a protective effect on UNDW-induced bronchoconstriction.
The efficacy of vitamin C in preventing EIA cannot be predicted. However, vitamin C may have a protective effect on airway hyperreactivity in some patients with EIA.
The results of this study indicate that sputum induction can be used to measure the glutathione content of bronchial secretions. Sputum glutathione levels of stable asthmatic patients did not differ significantly from healthy controls.
We conclude that while vitamin C supplements may have modest corticosteroid sparing effects and hence the potential to reduce exposure to their side effects, magnesium supplements have no effect on the inhaled corticosteroid dose required to maintain asthma control.
Regular dietary supplementation with vitamin C or magnesium adds no clinical benefit to current standard therapy of asthma in primary care patients.
High-dose antenatal vitamin C and E supplementation does not improve infant respiratory outcome and is associated with increased healthcare utilisation and cost of care.
In this large randomised clinical trial of apparently healthy adult women, administration of 100 mg aspirin on alternate days reduced the relative risk of a newly reported diagnosis of asthma.
In patients with asthma, consumption of a diet with moderate to high amounts of soy genistein is associated with better lung function and better asthma control.
Short-term dietary supplementation with n-3 PUFA in women with stable asthma was not associated with statistically significant changes in FeNO, asthma control, or lung function.
Our results indicate that a daily dose of Dunaliella beta-carotene exerts a protective effect against EIA in some patients most probably through in vivo antioxidative effect.
Our results indicate that a daily dose of lycopene exerts a protective effect against EIA in some patients, most probably through an in vivo antioxidative effect.
Selenium supplementation had no clinical benefit in adults with asthma, the majority of whom were taking inhaled steroids.
Asthma and COPD were individually and independently associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes in women, indicating that chronic airway inflammation may contribute to diabetes pathogenesis.
The increase in SOD activity in children with asthma seems to be a response to intensification of oxidative stress. Treatment of asthma with inhaled corticosteroids and long acting beta2-agonists augments antioxidative defense by increase in superoxide dismutase activity.
The pollutant exposure concentrations employed in this study were generally much greater than ambient. It is unlikely that short lived exposures at lower concentrations would show significant effects, but effects of longer term lower concentration exposures cannot be ruled out.
Systemic miRNAs with plausible biological function are altered by acute moderate-dose DE exposure. Oxidative stress appears to mediate DE-associated changes in miR-144.
Relatively low dietary intakes of vitamins A and C are associated with statistically significant increased odds of asthma and wheeze. Vitamin E intake does not appear to be related to asthma status.
The recommendations in this Guideline reflect the currently available evidence. New clinical research data will necessitate a revision and update in the future.
Symptomatic asthma in adults is associated with a low dietary intake of fruit, the antioxidant nutrients vitamin C and manganese, and low plasma vitamin C levels. These findings suggest that diet may be a potentially modifiable risk factor for the development of asthma.
Future research should focus on improving the effectiveness of education on home asthma triggers, and understanding long-term children's health effects of the interventions that have proven effective in reducing asthma triggers.
Amniotic membrane transplants may be useful in treating corneal perforation of immunologic origin, but conjunctiva and its vessels may play a role in the process of peripheral corneal destruction of Mooren's ulcer.
Topical tacrolimus ointment is effective in treating refractory ocular surface inflammatory diseases and should be considered as an alternative to higher doses, steroid supplementation, or surgical intervention.
Topical 2% CsA therapy can be a safe and useful adjunct to standard medical therapy in recalcitrant cases of Mooren ulcer.
Use of a dummy seems to reduce the risk of SIDS and possibly reduces the influence of known risk factors in the sleep environment.
Allergic rhinitis alone or together with non-nutritive sucking habits is related to anterior open bite. Non-nutritive sucking habits together with allergic rhinitis seem to be the most important factor for development of posterior open bite in children under the age of 5 years.
For The Republic of The Gambia--especially for areas with underdeveloped medical infrastructure--training and assignment to perform ART can be recommended for auxiliary dental staff of Community Oral Health Workers.
This study supports delegation of sealant delivery to auxiliaries, since dental assistants and dental hygienists were equal to or better than the dentists in long-term sealant effectiveness.
In this study, management of coagulopathic Crotalinae envenomation with longer-half-life F(ab')2 antivenom, with or without maintenance dosing, reduced the risk of subacute coagulopathy and bleeding following treatment of envenomation.
In the first randomized trial of antivenom in the United States, Fab AV effectively terminated venom effects. Since the unplanned use of Fab AV in the PRN group was common, the treatment regimen may require more than 1 initial dose.
All three antivenoms can be recommended for the treatment of snakebites in this region, though the reactogenicity of Brazilian and Colombian antivenoms is a cause for concern.
These results suggest that Australasian elapid prothrombin activators have a potent but short duration of action. Antivenom is unlikely to be administered in time to prevent VICC.
A slower infusion rate would not reduce the rate of severe systemic hypersensitivity reactions from current high rates. More effort should be put into developing better quality antivenoms.
Snakebites cause considerable morbidity and mortality worldwide. The highest burden exists in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa.
If the iodine status of pregnant women and small children is not to be misjudged, the above six factors need to be taken into account.
Adequate iodine nutrition status of school-age children or nonpregnant women may not indicate adequate iodine nutrition status among pregnant women. In order to assess the iodine status of pregnant women, the iodine status would need to be assessed in this group.
These findings suggest pregnant and lactating women and their infants in countries with successful sustained iodised salt programs have adequate iodine status.
Periconceptional intake of 400 microg of folic acid daily can reduce the risk of neural-tube defects in areas with high rates of these defects and in areas with low rates.
[6S]-5-MTHF was shown to be an adequate alternative to folic acid in reducing tHcy concentrations. Supplementation with 416 micro g [6S]-5-MTHF was no more effective than that with 208 micro g [6S]-5-MTHF.
The weekly administration of folic acid is a simple and efficient method that could be used to supplement this vitamin to low-income populations. The English version of this paper is available at: http://www.insp.mx/salud/index.html.
Folic acid supplements during early pregnancy seem to reduce the risk of isolated cleft lip (with or without cleft palate) by about a third. Other vitamins and dietary factors may provide additional benefit.
Applying a potent topical steroid affects improvement in balanitis xerotica obliterans in the histologically early and intermediate stages of disease, and may inhibit further worsening in the late stage.
Highly potent and moderately potent topical steroids are of comparable effectiveness in treating phimosis. A less potent steroid may be considered first to decrease the risk of the potential adverse effects.
The incidence of pathological phimosis in boys was 0.4 cases/1000 boys per year, or 0. 6% of boys affected by their 15th birthday, a value lower than previous estimates and exceeded more than eight-fold by the proportion of English boys currently circumcised for 'phimosis'.
In this series, the percentage of boys circumcised and the prevalence of BXO were both higher than in other published series. BXO may be more common and present at a younger age than previously thought.
Inhaled cyclosporine did not improve the rate of acute rejection, but it did improve survival and extend periods of chronic rejection-free survival. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
CLB should be considered as "first line" monotherapy along with CBZ and PHT for all partial and selected generalized childhood epilepsies.
Converting from monotherapy with a less effective or poorly tolerated conventional antiepileptic drug to monotherapy with lamotrigine is associated with better clinical and humanistic outcomes than converting to an alternative conventional antiepileptic drug.
The lower rate in the HMO population is presumably due to a healthy-worker effect. The ethnicity-specific incidence rates do not differ in this population.
Using the best available data, our survey of a limited number of disorders shows that the burden of neurologic illness affects many millions of people in the United States.
Patients who have many seizures before therapy or who have an inadequate response to initial treatment with antiepileptic drugs are likely to have refractory epilepsy.
This study estimates the global burden of epilepsy and the proportions with AE, which may benefit from treatment. There are systematic differences in reported prevalence estimates, which are only partially explained by study characteristics.
The efficacy of 0.1% tacrolimus ointment was similar to that of 0.1% hydrocortisone butyrate ointment and was lower for 0.03% tacrolimus ointment. No serious safety concerns were identified.
Long-term treatment with 0.1% tacrolimus ointment is significantly more efficacious than a corticosteroid ointment regimen in adults with moderate to severe AD.
The efficacy of tacrolimus 0.1% ointment was confirmed. In terms of emollient usage, no regular pattern could be demonstrated.
Tacrolimus 0.03% ointment in infants is associated with very low systemic exposure to tacrolimus. Treatment was well tolerated and led to considerable clinical improvement.
The short-term application of tacrolimus ointment is effective in the treatment of atopic dermatitis, with the sensation of burning being the main side effect.
Based on the data that are available the overall safety of AD therapies appears to be good with the only documented systemic side-effects of therapy those occasionally seen with use of topical corticosteroids.
Both tacrolimus ointment and pimecrolimus cream are safe and effective in the treatment of AD in pediatric patients. Tacrolimus ointments were superior to pimecrolimus cream.
There is geographical variation in the prevalence of eczema in adults both within and between countries. Although the disease is associated with IgE sensitization, in this study it was not related to mattress mite or cat allergen levels.
Exposure to topical tacrolimus or pimecrolimus was not associated with an increase in the overall cancer rate. Use of topical tacrolimus may be associated with an increased risk of T-cell lymphoma.
Long-term tacrolimus ointment therapy in patients with AD is nonatrophogenic and reverses corticosteroid-induced skin atrophy.
Over a period of two years, tacrolimus 0.03% ointment was associated with substantial clinical improvement of AD in infants aged <2 years. Treatment tolerability was similar to that seen in older children.
Pimecrolimus rapidly improves clinical symptoms and quality of life of patients with POD, being most effective in corticosteroid-induced POD.
This is the first randomized study to show positive and generalized effects of preschool-based JA-intervention.
This randomized controlled trial provides promising data on the specificity and generalizability of joint attention and play interventions for young children with autism. Future studies need to examine the long-term effects of these early interventions on children's development.
The Junior Detective Training Program appeared to be effective in enhancing the social skills and emotional understanding of children with AS. Limitations and suggestions for future research are discussed.
Findings suggest that teachers were able to improve a core deficit of children with ASD in a public preschool context.
Integrating joint attention training into existing interventions may be important for children with autism. In addition, training parents in these techniques may help to maintain joint attention skills outside of the treatment setting.
The observed point-prevalence is higher than previous US estimates. More inclusive survey questions, increased population awareness, and improved screening and identification by providers may partly explain this finding.
Sixty one per cent of the variation in prevalence estimates of typical autism was explained by these models. Diagnostic criteria used, age of children screened, and study location may be acting as proxies for other study characteristics and require further investigation.
Albendazole plus dexamethasone increased complete or partial resolution of lesions and reduced the risk of subsequent recurrence of seizures among children with neurocysticercosis who had with seizures and 1 or 2 ring-enhancing lesions on computed tomography.
Short-term oral prednisolone along with antiepileptic drugs helps in rapid resolution of single small enhancing lesions in patient with newly diagnosed seizure disorder with good clinical outcome.
Short-term prednisolone therapy helps in rapid resolution of solitary cysticercus granuloma in Indian patients with new-onset seizures. Resolution of lesions is associated with improved seizure-related prognosis.
Examining individual studies it appears that DFZ improves strength and functional outcomes compared to placebo, but it remains unclear if it has a benefit over prednisone on similar outcomes. Two trials found that DFZ causes less weight gain than prednisone.
The study was unable to correlate an ISSIS with the type of surgical dressing that was used, although it was not possible to rule out an association, as the study did not have sufficient statistical power.
In children, there was no significant difference in terms of wound infection after applying dressing or leaving the clean surgical wounds exposed without any dressing after completion of wound closure. Dressing clean surgical wounds may be unnecessary.
In saphenous vein harvest wounds, the occlusive wrap dressing technique has the potential to reduce the rate of infection by 50%. This simple and inexpensive technique is also readily applicable to the radial artery harvest site in the arm and may provide similar benefit.
The new hydrocolloid dressing, applied with an occlusive dressing technique to median sternotomy wounds, prevented SSI and was cost effective.
The occlusive, moist-environment dressing principle in the clinical surgical setting does not lead to quicker wound healing or less pain than gauze dressings. The lower costs of less frequent dressing changes do not balance the higher costs of occlusive materials. Trial Registration trialregister.nl Identifier: 56264738.
This is the first report using multivariable analysis of age, height, weight, and BMI to evaluate associations with IA injuries after ACL rupture observed during ACL reconstruction. We hypothesize that athletes possibly could reduce risk of certain IA pathologies with maintenance of lower body weight and BMI and thus potentially improve long-term functional outcomes after ACL reconstruction.
Study design characteristics should also be taken into account whenever a study on MRI assessing its diagnostic performance is designed or reviewed.
STP seems to be a promising add-on drug, particularly when combined with CBZ in patients with partial childhood epilepsy refractory to vigabatrin (VGB) and with CLB in patients with severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy.
Agreement among the different definitions is strong but imperfect. All definitions were significantly associated with longer-term outcome. No single preferred definition of intractable epilepsy exists. Some discussion within the field of epilepsy and a consensus process should be considered as a future step for enhancing comparability of research efforts and clinical guidelines. Consideration should be given to whether a single definition will suit all purposes or whether different types of definitions are needed for different purposes.
At clinically relevant concentrations, STP enhances central GABA transmission through a barbiturate-like effect, suggesting that STP should possess an antiepileptic effect by itself.
Although long-term prophylaxis with cephalexin successfully delayed the acquisition of S aureus, it enhanced colonization with P aeruginosa and did not lead to clinically significant improvement in major health outcomes. These data do not support routine antistaphylococcal prophylaxisin otherwise healthy infants and young children with CF.
Patients with cystic fibrosis should be considered candidates for lung transplantation when the FEV1 falls below 30 percent of the predicted value. Female patients and younger patients may need to be considered for transplantation at an earlier stage.
The difference in effectiveness between antibiotic and placebo was not greater than 14.3%, and we calculated that 94 children would need to be exposed to antibiotics to avoid six cases of acute otitis media. In view of the risk of development of resistance due to frequent exposure to antibiotics, our study supports the need for reduction in the administration of antibiotics in upper respiratory tract infection even in children at high risk of acute otitis media.
Initial use of antibiotics do not benefit patients with acute upper respiratory tract infections and are associated with an increase in adverse effects.
Bacteraemia is rare in RSV infection. Children with RSV infection are more likely to be bacteraemic, however, if they have nosocomial RSV infection, cyanotic congenital heart disease, or require intensive care unit admission.
Complications and early return resulting from no or delayed prescribing of antibiotics for sore throat are rare. Both current and previous prescribing for sore throat increase reattendance. To avoid medicalising a self limiting illness doctors should avoid antibiotics or offer a delayed prescription for most patients with sore throat.
GPs overestimate symptoms and probably patients' expectations when indicating antibiotic therapy in RTI cases in daily practice. Correct interpretation of combinations of symptoms for antibiotic treatment should be emphasized, combined with adopting more patient-centred consulting skills to rationalize the prescribing of antibiotics.
Treatment with antibiotic does not affect the resolution of cough or alter the course of illness. The benefits of antibiotic treatment are marginal for most patients with acute cough and may be outweighed by the side effects of treatment.
In view of the lack of efficacy and low complication rates, antibiotic treatment of children with URTI is not supported by current evidence from randomised trials.
The intervention led to improved antibiotic prescribing for respiratory tract infections in a representative sample of Norwegian general practitioners, and the courses were feasible to the general practitioners.
General practitioners have reduced prescribing for sore throat in response to research and policy initiatives. Further interventions to reduce prescribing would need to improve identification of patients at risk of complications and be workable in busy clinical situations.
Inappropriate initial antimicrobial therapy for septic shock occurs in about 20% of patients and is associated with a fivefold reduction in survival. Efforts to increase the frequency of the appropriateness of initial antimicrobial therapy must be central to efforts to reduce the mortality of patients with septic shock.
The increased use of broader-spectrum and more expensive antimicrobial drugs have implications for all patients because of the impact on health care costs and the potential for the emergence of antimicrobial resistance. The data suggest that the incidence of otitis media and sinusitis is increasing.
The reduction in antibiotic prescribing for otitis media predated guidance. The simultaneous decrease in prescribing for non-acute otitis media and increase for acute otitis media suggest diagnostic transfer, possibly to justify the decision to treat.
The study offers a reliable method for newborn screening for cystathionine beta-synthase deficiency, reaching a sensitivity of up to 100%, even if samples are taken within the first 3 days of life.
In this study, children who received dental restorative treatment with amalgam did not, on average, have statistically significant differences in neurobehavioral assessments or in nerve conduction velocity when compared with children who received resin composite materials without amalgam. These findings, combined with the trend of higher treatment need later among those receiving composite, suggest that amalgam should remain a viable dental restorative option for children.
In this study, there were no statistically significant differences in adverse neuropsychological or renal effects observed over the 5-year period in children whose caries were restored using dental amalgam or composite materials. Although it is possible that very small IQ effects cannot be ruled out, these findings suggest that the health effects of amalgam restorations in children need not be the basis of treatment decisions when choosing restorative dental materials.
After 5 years' service the overall wear of three posterior composites exceeded that of two amalgams; however, for a number of restorations the difference was not significant. Marginal wear values cannot be used to predict the overall maximal depth of wear.
The findings of this study confirm that treatment of children with amalgam restorations leads to increased, albeit low-level, exposure to mercury. In this exploratory analysis of immune function, amalgam exposure did not cause overt immune deficits, although small transient effects were observed five to seven days after restoration placement.
It is tentatively concluded that amalgams are more cost-effective than composites for replacing existing Class II amalgam restorations.
When clinically practicable, large direct placement restorations should be placed initially in preference to indirect restorations.
In this study, we provide examples of in vitro and in vivo tests that may be used to evaluate embryotoxicity for dental materials. Our results show that leached components from our composite-material induced embryotoxicity in vitro, however, no toxicity was observed when subcutaneously implanted in vivo. This highlights the necessity of integrated in vitro and in vivo tests for valuable predictive estimation of embryotoxicity for complex materials.
Several practitioner and practice, patient and lesion characteristics were associated significantly with use of amalgam and RBC: geographical region, years since dentist's graduation, patient's dental insurance status, tooth location and surface, and preoperative and postoperative lesion depth.
The proportion of obligatory anaerobic species was much greater than the facultative anaerobic species in the biofilm of secondary caries. Statistically, the materials of restoration and the location of secondary caries did not show any significant effects on the composition of the microflora.
It was concluded that the clinical, socioeconomic and home environment factors evaluated exerted a negative impact on the oral health-related quality of life of schoolchildren, demonstrating the importance of health managers addressing all these factors when planning oral health promotion interventions for this population.
All aesthetic alternatives to amalgam require more complex procedures and more time. If cost benefit considerations are a concern, amalgam is still the most convenient restorative material for posterior teeth.
COPD patients receiving diuretics and those not receiving diuretics but with FEV1 reversibility >12% at baseline were significantly more likely to experience a reduction in COPD-associated exacerbations with SFC versus SAL alone.
Inhaled corticosteroids, even at high doses, were of no physiological or functional benefit in these patients with advanced COPD.
SFC has airway anti-inflammatory effects not seen with inhaled corticosteroids alone.
Fluticasone propionate 500 microgram twice daily did not affect the rate of decline in FEV(1) but did produce a small increase in FEV(1). Patients on fluticasone propionate had fewer exacerbations and a slower decline in health status. These improvements in clinical outcomes support the use of this treatment in patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Patients who withdrew from follow-up were those with the most rapidly deteriorating health status and lung function. Losing these patients from the final analysis can reduce the power of a study to achieve its primary end point.
This Markov model allows, for the first time, a means of estimating the long-term cost effectiveness and cost utility of interventions for COPD. Initial evidence suggests that for patients with poorly reversible COPD and a documented history of frequent COPD exacerbations, the addition of salmeterol (a long-acting beta(2)-agonist) to fluticasone propionate (an inhaled corticosteroid) is potentially cost effective from the Canadian healthcare payer's perspective. However, the precision of this estimate will be improved when additional data are available from clinical trials such as the ongoing TORCH (TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health) study.
The effects of salmeterol and fluticasone propionate, alone or in combination, on PEF and breathlessness are seen within days and most of the obtainable effect on these parameters is reached within 2 weeks.
The reduction in death from all causes among patients with COPD in the combination-therapy group did not reach the predetermined level of statistical significance. There were significant benefits in all other outcomes among these patients. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Women enrolled in TORCH had a lower mortality rate than men but similar causes of death. The risk of dying was similar in women and men after adjusting for important baseline variables. Women reported more exacerbations, and worse dyspnea and health status scores than men. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Pharmacotherapy with salmeterol plus fluticasone propionate, or the components, reduces the rate of decline of FEV(1) in patients with moderate-to-severe COPD, thus slowing disease progression. Clinical trial (GSK Study Code SCO30003) registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Osteoporosis is highly prevalent in patients with COPD, irrespective of gender. In the TORCH study, no significant effect on BMD was detected for ICS therapy compared with placebo.
In addition to treatment effects, health status changes in clinical trials may be influenced by demographic and disease-related factors. Deterioration in health status appears to be fastest in older persons and those with severe airflow limitation.
Beclomethasone/formoterol (400/24 μg) treatment for 48 weeks improved pulmonary function, reduced symptoms compared to formoterol, was safe and well-tolerated in patients with severe stable COPD. Neither of the long-acting β2-agonist/inhaled corticosteroid combinations affected the low exacerbation rate seen in this population.
SM&FP 50/250 microcg regularly assumed in combination via a single Diskus inhaler for a 52 week period improves respiratory function (such as FEV(1), morning PEF), and and symptom score significantly in moderate COPD previously treated with theophylline, and at an higher extent than SM alone or P. The use of beta(2) short acting prn is also reduced, together with the number of exacerbations.
We conclude that fluticasone propionate/salmeterol 250/50 is more effective than salmeterol at reducing the rate of moderate to severe exacerbations over 1 year. The benefits of this reduction relative to the risk of a higher incidence of reported pneumonia should be considered. This study supports the use of fluticasone propionate/salmeterol 250/50 for the reduction of COPD exacerbations in patients with COPD.
Treatment with FSC (FP, 250 microg, and SM, 50 microg) twice daily substantially improved morning lung function and sustained these improvements for over a period of 24 weeks compared with FP or SM treatment alone in patients with COPD, with no additional safety concerns for the combination treatment vs that with the individual components.
This study demonstrates that combination therapy with salmeterol/fluticasone compared with salmeterol monotherapy significantly reduces the frequency of moderate/severe exacerbations in patients with severe COPD.
FF/VI provides rapid and significant sustained improvement in FEV(1) in subjects with moderate-to-severe COPD, which was not influenced by the dose of FF. These data suggest that FF/VI may offer clinical efficacy in COPD and warrants additional study. GSK study number: HZC112207. ClinicalTrials.gov: 
In patients with mild COPD who continue smoking, the use of inhaled budesonide is associated with a small one-time improvement in lung function but does not appreciably affect the long-term progressive decline.
Our study shows beneficial effects of long-term daily treatment with inhaled corticosteroids in patients with COPD with regard to symptoms and drop out due to pulmonary problems. Lung function decline tends to decrease during treatment with inhaled corticosteroids. The observed effects are limited but warrant further studies on the effectiveness of corticosteroids in larger numbers of patients with COPD.
This meta-analysis in patients with clearly defined moderately severe COPD showed a beneficial course of FEV1 during two years of treatment with relatively high daily dosages of inhaled corticosteroids.
Budesonide/formoterol pMDI (320/9 microg and 160/9 microg) improved pulmonary function and reduced symptoms and exacerbations over 1 year in patients with moderate to very severe COPD. Only budesonide/formoterol pMDI 320/9 microg demonstrated greater efficacy for both co-primary variables compared with formoterol DPI 9 microg. Both budesonide/formoterol pMDI dosages were well tolerated relative to formoterol and placebo.
Oral steroid testing identifies a limited proportion of COPD patients, but does not reveal any clinically relevant benefit from inhaled steroid treatment on health status. No significant effects on exacerbation rate and lung function decline occurred.
Over 12 months, both budesonide/formoterol doses reduced the exacerbation rate (defined with or without antibiotic treatment) versus formoterol. Budesonide/formoterol pMDI is an appropriate treatment for reducing exacerbations in COPD patients with a history of exacerbations. (
Budesonide/formoterol pMDI 320/9 microg demonstrated significantly greater efficacy for pulmonary function on both co-primary endpoints versus the pre-specified comparators (formoterol DPI 9 microg for pre-dose FEV(1) and budesonide pMDI 320 microg for 1-hour post-dose FEV(1)). Budesonide/formoterol pMDI 160/9 microg demonstrated significantly greater efficacy for 1-hour post-dose FEV(1) versus budesonide pMDI 320 microg. Dyspnoea scores and HR-QOL were significantly improved with both budesonide/formoterol pMDI dosage strengths versus both monocomponents and placebo. Both budesonide/formoterol pMDI dosage strengths were well tolerated relative to the monocomponents and placebo.
In COPD, the capability of inflammatory cells to produce certain AA metabolites was decreased after inhaled FP treatment. This result is discussed in its relation to clinical effects, the influence of smoking, and the results of an earlier, similar study in asthma patients.
Inhaled triamcinolone does not slow the rate of decline in lung function in people with COPD, but it improves airway reactivity and respiratory symptoms and decreases the use of health care services for respiratory problems. These benefits should be weighed against the potential long-term adverse effects of triamcinolone on bone mineral density.
Withdrawal of FP in COPD patients using SFC resulted in acute and persistent deterioration in lung function and dyspnoea and in an increase in mild exacerbations and percentage of disturbed nights. This study clearly indicates a key role for ICS in the management of COPD as their discontinuation leads to disease deterioration, even under treatment with a LABA.
These COPD patients treated with BUD/FM were less likely to have ED visits and hospitalizations for COPD and used fewer doses of anticholinergic medication than patients treated with FP/SM in the year after treatment initiation. However, due to the observational nature of the study design, we cannot conclude with certainty that the medication was the only factor responsible for the observed differences.
Among patients with COPD, ICS therapy does not affect 1-year all-cause mortality. ICS therapy is associated with a higher risk of pneumonia. Future studies should determine whether specific subsets of patients with COPD benefit from ICS therapy.
The use of inhaled corticosteroids is associated with an excess risk of pneumonia hospitalization and of pneumonia hospitalization followed by death within 30 days, among elderly patients with COPD.
The results of the indirect comparison support the hypothesis that budesonide/formoterol is associated with fewer pneumonia events than salmeterol/fluticasone in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The limitations of the analysis are that the results from a single study, TORCH, have a large bearing on the overall findings of the analysis, and that there is heterogeneity in the length and the dosing of the included studies, although it does not appear that heterogeneity affected the reported results. Another important limitation is the lack of predefined diagnostic standards for pneumonia in these studies.
For most outcomes of interest, BFC and FSC showed comparable real-world effectiveness.
ICS use by patients with COPD increases the risk of serious pneumonia. The risk is particularly elevated and dose related with fluticasone. While residual confounding cannot be ruled out, the results are consistent with those from recent randomised trials.
Decision support improved processes of care but not depression outcomes. More intensive care management or specialty treatment may be needed to improve depression outcomes.
Collaborative care resulted in more rapid improvement in depression symptomatology, and a more rapid and sustained improvement in mental health status compared to the more standard model. Mounting evidence indicates that collaboration between primary care providers and mental health specialists can improve depression treatment and supports the necessary changes in clinic structure and incentives.
Better coordination and communication under collaborative care was associated with a greater number of patients being treated for depression and with moderate increases in days free of depression and in treatment cost. Additional resources are needed for effective collaborative care models for depression treatment in primary care.
These findings suggest that at the time of diagnosis it is not possible to predict who is most likely to benefit from Collaborative Care. Instead, outcomes of treatment should be routinely monitored among depressed patients to ensure optimal response.
Even though enhanced acute-phase treatment of depression in primary care resulted in better treatment adherence and better clinical outcomes at 4 and 7 months, these improvements failed to persist over the following year. Continued enhancement of depression treatment may be needed to ensure better long-term results.
There was no enduring improvement in the treatment of depression for primary care patients. Depression treatment guidelines were achieved contemporaneously, however, for intervention patients enrolled in a multifaceted program of collaborative care during the training period. These results suggest that continuing programs of reorganized service delivery to support the role of a primary care physician (eg, on-site mental health personnel, close monitoring of patient progress and adherence), in addition to physician training, are essential for the success of guideline implementation.
A collaborative care intervention was associated with sustained improvement in depressive outcomes without additional health care costs in approximately two thirds of primary care patients with persistent depressive symptoms.
A multifaceted program targeted to patients whose depressive symptoms persisted 6 to 8 weeks after initiation of antidepressant medication by their primary care physician was found to significantly improve adherence to antidepressants, satisfaction with care, and depressive outcomes compared with usual care.
Among high utilizers of medical care, systematic identification and treatment of depression produce significant and sustained improvements in clinical outcomes as well as significant increases in health services costs.
Initial depression severity, comorbid panic disorder, and other psychosocial vulnerabilities were associated with a decreased response to the collaborative care intervention. Although the intervention was appropriate for patients with moderate depression, individuals with higher levels of depression may require a longer continuation phase of therapy in order to achieve optimal depression outcomes.
Screening hospitalised cardiac patients for depression and providing targeted advice to their GPs reduces depression severity 12 months after hospitalisation.
A collaborative care model combining training with psychiatric consultation in the general practice setting is an effective intervention in the treatment of persistent medically unexplained symptoms. Anxiety and depressive disorders are highly comorbid in this group. The findings warrant a larger study.
Despite receiving similar training and resources, organizations exhibited substantial variability in enacting change in clinical care systems, as evidenced by both quality indicators and outcomes. Sites that performed better on quality indicators had better outcomes, and the differences were not attributable to patients' characteristics.
The results suggest that the cat SLIT used in this study was able to improve cat allergy based on natural exposure challenge.
Our results suggest that this immunotherapy is effective for the treatment of asthma due to grass pollen in children.
Treatment with grass allergen tablets in doses up to 500000 SQ-T in patients with asthma and rhinoconjunctivitis was safe and well tolerated.
These trials demonstrate that doses up to 12 DU of HDM SLIT-tablet were tolerated in the selected populations, and thus are suitable for further clinical investigations in adults and children with HDM respiratory allergic disease.
Self-administration of the grass allergen tablet was safe. The treatment did not impair asthma control and confirmed considerable symptom prevention and reduced medication use. It addresses the allergic condition and represents a baseline treatment for grass pollen allergy.
A 1-year SLIT reduces the allergic symptoms and the respiratory airways inflammation more than pharmacotherapy.
These interim results after only 1 year of treatment show that SLIT in children monosensitized to HDMs is able to avoid the spontaneous increase in both nasal sIgE antibodies and in local allergic inflammation in basal conditions. These outcomes are confirmed and supported by the decrease of symptoms in the active group combined with the increase of nasal tryptase only in the control group in both cases after sNCT.
Our results suggest that treatment for 2 years with SLIT is clinically safe and effective in significantly decreasing respiratory symptoms in children with mild to moderate asthma sensitized to HDM. On the other hand, the lack of changes of the immunologic parameters calls for further investigations with special reference to kinetics and mechanism(s) of action of this mode of treatment.
Our data show that SLIT abrogates the seasonal bronchial hyperreactivity in children with asthma due to Parietaria. This may be regarded as an indirect evidence of the effect on bronchial inflammation.
High-dose ultrarush SLIT reduced the severity of allergic symptoms in the first 2 grass pollen seasons but continuously improved bronchial hyperreactivity in children with asthma, suggesting that SLIT should be continued despite the lack of further improvement in clinical symptoms.
Our study indicated that high-dose ultra-rush, co-seasonal SLIT given for 2 years, was safe and reduced a multiple symptom-medication score.
This pilot study suggests that SLIT with high dose birch extract may be able to step down seasonal pollen-induced asthma after prolonged treatment.
These findings suggest that NKT cells play a key role in the development of Th2 cell response to inhaled allergens and that TNF-α produced by alveolar macrophages induces Th2 cell response, via TNFR2 on NKT cells.
Sublingual mite allergen immunotherapy was well tolerated in adult asthmatics and effectively controlled disease in patients with moderate (but not mild) persistent asthma (ClinicalTrials.gov: 
The administration of cockroach allergen by means of SCIT is immunologically more active than SLIT, especially with regard to IgG4 levels and blocking antibody responses. No safety concerns were raised in any age group. These pilot studies suggest that immunotherapy with cockroach allergen is more likely to be effective with SCIT.
This study showed a good NPV of diagnostic tests for hazelnut allergy in children which further improved by rCor a 1 spiking. However, the PPVs are moderate and decreased by spiking.
Specific sublingual immunotherapy with dermatophagoides farinae drops is an effective and highly safe treatment for cough variant asthma in children.
No serious adverse event was reported in the studies monitored, confirming the good safety profile of the sublingual-swallow method both in children and adults with rhinitis or moderate asthma.
SLIT with Cupressus arizonica (pollen extracts) produced, after one year treatment, a significant improvement of allergic symptoms and a decrease of drug consumption scores and allergen-specific nasal reactivity. SLIT with Cupressus arizonica appeared to be effective and safe in the treatment of Cupressaceae pollen respiratory allergy.
Twelve months of treatment with 500IR and 300IR sublingual tablets of HDM allergen extracts was efficacious and well tolerated. Efficacy was maintained during the treatment-free follow-up year.
Use of once-daily timothy grass AIT treatment effectively treats timothy grass (cross-reactive with Festucoideae grasses) pollen-induced ARC in North American children 5 years and older. Given its convenient administration, lack of dose build-up requirement, safety profile, and efficacy, AIT treatment might become an important addition to the North American ARC treatment armamentarium.
High-dose D farinae SLIT was generally tolerable, increased serum D farinae-specific IgG4 levels, and improved the bronchial threshold to allergen challenge. Larger US trials are warranted.
These data suggest that the allergen-driven enhancement of IL-10- and IFN-gamma-producing T cells precedes and associates with SLIT-induced down-regulation of specific IgE, thus providing a rationale to explain the clinical benefit of SLIT in allergic patients.
This is the first successful North American confirmatory phase 3 clinical trial to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of a sublingual standardized ragweed allergen immunotherapy liquid extract for the treatment of ARC.
At 6 months the allergoid SLIT showed itself to be effective and safe. In addition the subjective clinical benefit was obtained in a more rapid period, i.e. 3 instead of 6 months, when a higher maintenance dose was administered.
Depigmented polymerized extracts of D. pteronyssinus and D. farinae are safe and effective in the treatment of mite allergic asthmatic patients, and provide clinical benefit in the shock organ after 6 months of treatment. Skin test reactivity, symptom and medication scores were also improved. Depigmented polymerized extracts of D. pteronyssinus and D. farinae induce clinical protection against a native extract as verified by specific bronchial challenges.
The risk-benefit ratio validates the use of 300 IR tablets in clinical practice in all of these patient subgroups, regardless of severity profile, sensitization status and presence of asthma.
For patients with respiratory allergy due to birch pollen and mild persistent asthma, sublingual immunotherapy added to low-dose inhaled corticosteroids appears effective in maintaining long-term seasonal asthma control, representing a safe opportunity to reduce the cumulative amount of delivered corticosteroids.
In this trial, 2800 BAU grass AIT did not demonstrate significant symptom improvement versus placebo. Lack of relationship between pollen count and symptom score in the study population, and post hoc findings among subjects with low pre-seasonal symptoms, suggest that the symptoms reported in this study were not primarily reflective of the effects of grass pollen exposure.
Timothy grass AIT treatment (cross-reactive with related Pooideae grasses) was demonstrated to be effective, generally safe, and well tolerated in North American adults with grass pollen-induced ARC.
This is the first double-blind, placebo-controlled evaluation of the efficacy of SLIT with latex extract conducted in adult patients allergic to NRL. SLIT with latex can be proposed for subjects with latex allergy, especially those for whom complete avoidance of latex exposure may be very difficult or even impossible. More studies are needed to evaluate the efficacy of SLIT in the treatment of subjects with latex allergy who are sensitized to inhalant allergens.
This study establishes the novel finding that TGF-beta mediates the immunological suppression seen early in clinically effective sublingual HDM immunotherapy in addition to an increase in Tregs with suppressor function. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
The results of this study show that the allergoid SLIT is safe and effective in decreasing symptom scores and drug use in rhinitic patients allergic to grass pollen.
Sublingual immunotherapy was clinically effective and safe in mite-induced mild disease.
High-dose, sublingual, specific immunotherapy with an extract of a 6-grass pollen mixture showed a significant and clinically relevant improvement in subjects with grass pollen-associated rhinitis or rhinoconjunctivitis, with or without asthma. The treatment with the sublingual solution was well tolerated.
Clinical benefits achieved during the present study included significant improvements in conjunctivitis symptoms and prevention of asthma symptoms. The overall safety profile of the active treatment (drops or tablets) was good.
Our data suggest that sublingual immunotherapy is both clinically effective and safe in treating patients with Parietaria-induced rhinoconjunctivitis and mild asthma.
All children undergoing SLIT showed clinical improvement, but a long-term reduction in symptom/medication scores with modulation of mucosal/systemic antibody responses were seen only in active groups (DPT and DPT+MRB).
In-season initiation of grass AIT was associated with an immunomodulatory response in terms of induction of IgE-blocking factor, specific IgE, and specific IgG(4). In-season initiation of grass AIT was generally well tolerated in this group of adults with moderate to severe grass pollen-induced rhinoconjunctivitis. These findings are consistent with those related to the preseasonal initiation of AIT therapy.
Once daily SLIT was well tolerated and can be safely initiated without updosing.
84% did not have any reaction, thus, sublingual immunotherapy with allergenic extracts of acarus is effective and safe in the treatment of asthma and allergic rhinitis.
For patients with respiratory allergies, sublingual immunotherapy with an 8-day induction protocol is safe and effective. Our results encourage the usage of shorter induction regimens, which produce better compliance with this therapy.
Allergen immunotherapy with mosquito extract was well tolerated, with improvement in symptoms and airway reactivity. Good clinical outcome was associated with increased IgG4 antibody levels.
Oral immunotherapy with microencapsulated allergen induces a form of immunologic tolerance to the allergen and is a safe, efficient, and effective method of allergen immunotherapy.
This study confirmed that this SLIT preparation significantly reduced symptoms and medication use in children with grass pollen-allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. The preparation showed significant effects on allergen-specific antibodies, was well tolerated, and appeared to be a valid therapeutic option in children allergic to grass pollen. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as 
One year treatment with Alutard SQ house dust mite immunotherapy significantly reduced symptoms and medication use in asthmatic subjects. This was associated with a greater subjective improvement in asthma control.
Pre- and co-seasonal treatment with 300IR birch pollen sublingual solution demonstrated sustained clinical efficacy over 2 pollen seasons and was well tolerated in adults with birch pollen-associated allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. Efficacy results were consistent in patients with and without oral allergy syndrome.
Despite the small number of patients, our data suggest that SLIT with a grass pollen extract is well tolerated in children and is able to significantly reduce drug consumption during the second year of treatment. Studies in larger groups of children sensitized to both grass and tree pollens are needed to definitively assess the role of SLIT in intermittent, seasonal rhinitis and pollen asthma.
Standardized outcomes for clinical research in asthma have been proposed. Participating NIH institutes and other federal agencies will consider these recommendations in future clinical research initiatives in asthma.
This meta-analysis found that SLIT is beneficial for asthma treatment albeit the magnitude of the effect is not very large. Moreover, it is a safe alternative to the subcutaneous route. More RCT with standardization of symptom scores and medications are needed in order to contribute further to this subject.
We have developed a methodology to identify outcomes of most relevance to clinicians, parents, and young people when evaluating regularly administered therapies for asthma. Daytime and nocturnal symptoms, exacerbations, QoL, and mortality are particularly important outcomes that should be measured and reported in all clinical trials of regular therapies for children with asthma.
SLIT is safe and clinically effective in reducing symptoms and medication use for allergic asthma. Our subgroup analyses failed to identify a disproportionate benefit of SLIT in any specific group of asthmatics, but some possible trends did emerge.
Community-based case managers are more effective than traditional Medicaid/SCHIP outreach and enrollment in insuring uninsured Latino children. Case management may be a useful mechanism to reduce the number of uninsured children, especially among high-risk populations.
Handing out insurance applications in the ED can be an effective SCHIP enrollment strategy, particularly among minority children without connections to the social welfare system. Adopted nationwide, this simple strategy could initiate insurance coverage for more than a quarter million additional children each year.
Our findings suggest that public insurance initiatives that provide states with flexibility regarding eligibility and plan design are a viable policy approach to reducing uninsurance rates.
Personal telephone calls are effective in increasing outreach for children's health insurance application. However, more research is needed to investigate why parents fail to mail in the application. Ultimately, insuring more children will result in cost-effective improvements in quality-adjusted life years.
Gains in children's coverage and access to care during CHIP expansions have since stagnated or even reversed for some groups. Recent legislation to expand coverage for uninsured children (the PPACA of 2010) may redress these adverse changes in trends.
Recent expansions in public insurance eligibility under SCHIP have improved coverage for children with chronic conditions, with selected improvements in access to care. However, some eligible children with chronic conditions remain uninsured, and the impact on access to care and service use were limited. Additional progress may require targeted outreach to children with chronic conditions and improvements in Medicaid and SCHIP service-delivery systems. Given the current fiscal environment and the fact that children with chronic conditions have not generally been protected from cutbacks, the recent progress documented in this study may be reversed.
The ED may be an important outreach site for child health insurance programs. National efforts to address the lack of insurance among children should include partnerships with the ED.
The CHIP expansions to children in higher income families were associated with limited uptake of public coverage. Our results additionally suggest that there was crowd-out of private insurance coverage.
The success of New York at reducing uninsurance for parents through expansions of both public and private coverage offers hope for new strategies to expand coverage. The NHIS is a strong data source for evaluations of many state health reform initiatives, providing a better measure of insurance status and supporting a more comprehensive study of state innovations than is possible with the CPS.
Physicians reported that they do not immunize uninsured and underinsured children as frequently as insured children. Further research is recommended to evaluate the impact of Medicaid enrollment on access to immunization and to develop innovative financing arrangements to ensure that no children leave their physicians' offices without being immunized.
Understanding why uninsured children with special health care needs do not participate in public programs is important, because these programs have the potential to cover almost all of this population. Initiatives to increase enrollment should yield real dividends given that the vast majority of low-income uninsured children with special health care needs have parents who say they would enroll their children in public coverage.
Skin-to-skin contact promoted reduction in behavioral measures and less physiological increase during procedure. It is recommended that skin-to-skin contact be used as a non-pharmacologic intervention to relieve acute pain in stable premature infants born 30 weeks gestational age or older.
For preterm neonates who are 32 weeks' postmenstrual age or older, KC seems to effectively decrease pain from heel lancing. Further study is needed to determine if younger neonates or those requiring assistance in breathing, or older infants or toddlers, would benefit from KC, or if it would remain effective over several procedures. Given its effectiveness, and that parents of neonates in critical care units want to participate more in comforting their children, KC is a potentially beneficial strategy for promoting family health.
The infants in the skin-to-skin group were comforted, that is, they stopped crying, became calmer, and reached a drowsy state earlier than the infants in the cot group. The father can facilitate the development of the infant's prefeeding behavior in this important period of the newborn infant's life and should thus be regarded as the primary caregiver for the infant during the separation of mother and baby.
K-care, as compared to within-crib condition, led to a decrease in stressful neurobehavioural signs after BT procedures in premature infants. Painful procedures such as the BT procedure in premature infants should be performed while the infants are being held in K-care position.
Different modalities of maternal presence would appear to be necessary to blunt pain response in infants, and recorded maternal voice alone is not sufficient. The loudness of the recording may have obliterated the infant's ability to discern the mother's voice and may even have been aversive, reflected in decreased oxygen saturation levels in the voice condition. Preterm neonates of 32 to 36 weeks' gestation may become sensitized to painful experiences and show anticipatory physiological response.
Mother-infant skin-to-skin contact after extremely preterm birth results in neither benefit nor adverse consequences. Although there is no reason to dissuade mothers who wish to provide STS contact, we are unable to recommend resource allocation for the implementation of STS programmes for extremely preterm infants in a neonatal intensive care unit setting.
Our results lend additional support to the value of skin-to-skin care in neonatal intensive care. Variable stress responses in preterm infants favor the need for individualized care. The mothers' need for support seem to be more pronounced in the first skin-to-skin session as our results show a higher degree of stress as compared with later skin-to-skin care.
Combining sucrose, oral tactile stimulation, and parental holding was associated with significantly reduced crying in infants receiving multiple immunization injections. Parents stated a strong preference for future use of this method, and nurses found the intervention injection technique easy to apply.
Despite its routine use in the NICU, morphine given as a loading dose followed by continuous intravenous infusions does not appear to provide adequate analgesia for the acute pain caused by invasive procedures among ventilated preterm neonates.
the findings of this systematic review fail to support the current initiatives to implement changes in clinical practice to include skin-to-skin contact. Methodological flaws within the included studies prohibit firm conclusions being reached with regard to the effect of skin-to-skin contact on the duration of breast feeding, timing of first breast feed or baby physiological factors. The review highlights the need for further primary research to assess the effect of skin-to-skin contact on the breast-feeding experience.
Some of the non-pharmacological interventions have an evident favourable effect on pulse rate, respiration and oxygen saturation, on the reduction of motor activity, and on the excitation states after invasive measures. However, unambiguous evidence of this still remains to be presented. Further research should emphasise the use of validated pain assessment instruments for the evaluation of the pain-alleviating effect of non-pharmacological interventions.
KC seems to influence state organization and motor system modulation of the newborn infant shortly after delivery. The significance of our findings for supportive transition from the womb to the extrauterine environment is discussed. Medical and nursing staff may be well advised to provide this kind of care shortly after birth.
Changes in 4 facial actions were the most sensitive indicators of pain in ELGA infants. This finding is consistent with existing measures where facial actions are the most prominent pain indicators. Specific body movements such as those included in NIDCAP, may provide more information about pain in ELGA infants. Movements such as hand-on-face, finger splaying, fisting, arching or yawning need to be examined in future research.
In ELGA infants, the shift from low basal cortisol levels at 3 months to significantly high levels at 8 and 18 months CA suggests long-term "resetting" of endocrine stress systems. Multiple factors may contribute to these higher cortisol levels in the ELGA infants, including physiological immaturity at birth, cumulative stress related to multiple procedures, and mechanical ventilation during lengthy hospitalization. Prolonged elevation of the cortisol "set-point" may have negative implications for neurodevelopment and later health.
This research provides beginning evidence that the N-PASS is a valid and reliable tool for assessing pain/agitation and sedation in ventilated and/or postoperative infants 0 to 100 days of age, and 23 weeks gestation and above.
Postoperative pain in neonates in Canadian NICUs appears to be consistently treated, primarily with opioid analgesics, but analgesia, opioid or nonopioid is rarely given for nonsurgical invasive procedures.
Repeated use of sucrose analgesia in infants <31 weeks' PCA may put infants at risk for poorer neurobehavioral development and physiologic outcomes. Additional study is needed to determine the most appropriate age and duration of sucrose analgesia in preterm infants.
Guidelines now are available from a consensus group, and suggestions for implementation of guidelines, based on implementation of other pain management strategies, were developed.
Biobehavioral pain responses were similar overall between both groups of infants. Subtle differences were observed in cardiac autonomic responses during the lance period and in behavioral recovery among ELBW infants. Whether these findings represent a long-term effect of early pain experience or a developmental lag in pain response remains unclear. The lack of an overall difference runs counter to previously reported findings of reduced behavioral response in former ELBW infants. biobehavioral pain response, premature infants, repetitive pain, heart rate variability.
These findings may be somewhat explained by differing views and a lack of effective communication between parents and nurses. There is a clear need for nurses to discuss parent involvement with parents and negotiate roles in relation to pain management.
Clinicians estimated that most neonatal intensive care unit procedures are painful, but only a third of the neonates received appropriate analgesic therapy. Despite the accumulating evidence that neonatal procedural pain is harmful, analgesic treatment for painful procedures is limited. Systematic approaches are required to reduce the occurrence of pain and to improve the analgesic treatment of repetitive pain in neonates.
The PIPP is a newly developed pain assessment measure for premature infants with beginning content and construct validity. The practicality and feasibility for using the PIPP in clinical practice will be determined in prospective research in the clinical setting.
Parents' reactions to their child's critical illness and admission to the pediatric intensive care unit were not related to characteristics of the child's condition in this small sample. Future research needs are suggested.
In contrast to other studies in cystic fibrosis, this study demonstrated a need for vitamin K1 supplementation. The carboxylation state of osteocalcin and PIVKA-II were the most sensitive indices of changes in vitamin K1 status. Although the 5 mg vitamin K1/week dose improved these vitamin K parameters, normal levels were not achieved.
Bone mass of the whole body and spine was lower than expected for chronological age in approximately one third of pediatric patients with cystic fibrosis irrespective of gender or age. This may be explained by the observation of low bone turnover for developmental stage as indicated by bone biomarkers. Suboptimal status of vitamins D and K may be key causative factors of the low bone status for age.
Vitamin K deficiency of liver or bone may occur independently. Prothrombin time is an insensitive marker. Individuals with ApoE4 allels might be more susceptible to osteopenia. As high expenditures are necessary to detect patients at risk, routine vitamin K supplementation for all PICF patients appears appropriate.
An oral fat-soluble vitamin combination with a modest amount of vitamin K can, as a daily supplement, improve the PIVKA-II levels in patients with PI and CF.
Vitamin K1 deficiency is common among children with CF, and routine supplements should be considered. Through its role in the carboxylation of OC, vitamin K deficiency may be associated with an uncoupling of the balance between bone resorption and bone formation. A cause-effect relationship between vitamin K deficiency and low bone mass has not been proved.
Vitamin K status was often suboptimal despite routine supplementation. Only subjects taking high-dose vitamin K achieved a status similar to healthy subjects, and only the vitamin K supplementation dose predicted vitamin K status for males and females. These data suggest that higher doses of vitamin K are required.
Specific indications for routine vitamin K supplementation in all patients with CF have not yet been identified. Pending further studies, it would be prudent to consider routine supplementation in patients with CF and severe noncholestatic and cholestatic liver disease, major small-bowel resection, pancreatic insufficiency or lung disease necessitating frequent use of antibiotics. A stronger body of evidence is needed as a basis for clinical strategies.
Long-term outcome is similar in CF patients who present with meconium ileus and those who do not, except for a slightly higher incidence of meconium ileus equivalent, and a significantly higher rate of surgical complications. The risk of surgical complications is highest in those presenting with complicated meconium ileus and those undergoing resection or enterostomy. Patients with meconium obstruction who do not have CF have an excellent long-term prognosis. This information will be useful in counseling the families of infants presenting with neonatal meconium obstruction.
The English version of the CFQ appears to be a linguistically valid measure of quality of life for patients with CF. A national validation study is now under way to test the psychometric properties of the measure.
Vitamin K deficiency is common in unsupplemented patients with CF and pancreatic insufficiency and routine supplementation should be considered in all of these patients.
The new tissue adhesive formulation provides epidermal wound closure equivalent to commercially available devices with a trend to decreased incidence of wound infection.
There is no difference in cosmetic outcome between skin adhesive and suture closure in pediatric inguinal herniorrhaphy. Material costs are increased because of the high cost of adhesive relative to suture. This is partially offset, however, by the cost savings from reduction in operating room time.
We conclude that tissue glue approximation of circumcision wounds in children is a feasible alternative, but it offers no extra advantage when compared to suturing.
Octyl-2-cyanoacrylate glue is an excellent alternative to suture closure, producing equivalent quality of closure at all time points and no difference in appearance. This adhesive was sufficient to withstand the forces of closure in upper eyelid blepharoplasty without dehiscence in the absence of sutures.
The use of glued skin closure may increase the duration of surgery but acceptable neck mobility and wound cosmesis can be achieved by the more rapid application of stapled skin closure in cervicotomy incisions.
Wound dehiscence was seen significantly more frequent in the patients in whom the wound was closed with N-butylcyanoacrylate. The cosmesis of wounds closed with tissue glue was significantly lower then the cosmesis after suturing. Therefore, the authors advise, on the basis of this prospective randomized trial, that surgical wounds in children should be closed with a intracutaneous absorbable suture.
This pilot study demonstrates ClozeX to be a safe and effective closure device. The cosmetic outcome seems to be at least as good as simple running suture. Physicians and patients were generally more satisfied with ClozeX. No difference was found in the rate of dehiscence or infection between the groups.
Based on this review, there is insufficient evidence that port-site wound closure technique by tissue adhesives is superior to traditional suture closure technique in terms of wound infection, wound dehiscence, and patient satisfaction. However, tissue adhesives are quicker in port-site wound closure. A multicentre randomized controlled trial is required in order to obtain stronger evidence.
Repair of traumatic lacerations and surgical incisions with OCA is faster than with SWC, and cosmetic outcome is similar at 3 months.
Laparoscopic surgery was associated with better cosmesis than open surgery. Patients do not experience laparoscopic surgery any differently from open surgery.
Octylcyanoacrylate tissue adhesive effectively closes selected lacerations. This relatively painless and fast method of wound repair can replace the need for suturing several million lacerations each year.
The natural history for people at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes is weight gain and deterioration in glucose tolerance. This process may be ameliorated through adherence to a reduced fat intake
NCEP Step I and II diets generally match or exceed unmodified diet for vitamin and mineral content. Premenopausal women do not appear to be at increased risk of low iron intake. Vitamin E intake decreases, although the significance is unknown in the context of lower fat intake and increased intake of other antioxidants. Diet counseling and materials should encourage sources of calcium for women, and zinc for both women and men.
The results of this study suggest that participation in a low-fat, high-carbohydrate dietary intervention did not have any detrimental effects on participants' self-reported physical health or emotional well-being.
Overall, the LFHC dietary intervention did not influence the timing of menopause. Factors associated with age at menopause in this population were consistent with those reported in other populations.
The NCEP Step 2 diet failed to lower LDL cholesterol levels in men or women with high-risk lipoprotein levels who did not engage in aerobic exercise. This finding highlights the importance of physical activity in the treatment of elevated LDL cholesterol levels.
The results of the current study suggest that the effects of this isocaloric low-fat, high-fiber diet pattern on circulating ovarian steroids were modest or nonexistent. However, the observed 7.5% reduction in estradiol could have biologic significance if it persisted over many years. Moreover, underestimation of the true dietary effect could have occurred because of incomplete adherence to assigned diets. Weight loss and weight control through midlife could be a more effective and feasible approach to dietary intervention in reducing the risk of breast carcinoma.
When subjects without intention to lose weight limit fat intake by switching from ad libitum consumption of full fat products to reduced fat products body weight gain is prevented, and fat and energy intake are reduced. Such a switch may have beneficial effects on biochemical cardiovascular risk factors. We concluded that reduced fat products will help in a population strategy aimed at preventing overweight and obesity, they will also be effective in maintaining a lower body weight after slimming. Ad libitum consumption of reduced fat products will be ineffective for those individuals that want to reduce body weight because they are currently overweight or obese.
A diet lower in carbohydrate/higher in monounsaturated fat could offer an appropriate choice for nonobese type 1 diabetic individuals with good metabolic and weight control.
In patients with a history of nonmelanoma skin cancer, a low-fat diet reduces the incidence of actinic keratosis.
The beneficial effects of this nutrition education intervention among adolescents may highlight the potential of such programmes in the prevention of obesity.
High dietary fiber intakes, premenopausal, and high social support were related to decreased severity of VMS 1 year after study enrollment in women recently treated for breast cancer.
There are more similarities than differences in the dietary intake of Hispanic and non-Hispanic white breast cancer survivors in the Women's Healthy Eating and Living study. Further analysis is needed to determine if higher lycopene consumption shown among the Hispanic participants will translate to greater protection against breast cancer recurrence or increased survival.
A major change to a plant-based diet was associated with a minimal increase in grocery costs.
A multimodal approach to dietary modification, based largely on individualized telephone counseling, can substantially change the overall dietary pattern of women previously treated for breast cancer.
The secondary analysis showing the decreased risk in the HF- subgroup was not explained by amount of change in dietary pattern achieved. The difference was strongest in the quartile with the most putatively cancer-preventive dietary pattern at baseline.
Innovative telephone counseling intervention and dietary targets in the Women's Healthy Eating and Living study were associated with the level of change in circulating carotenoid concentration necessary to test the diet and breast cancer hypothesis suggested by cohort studies.
The results of this study indicate that a protocol based on motivational interviewing and delivered through contacts with trained dietitians is an efficacious way to further lower dietary fat intake among participants exposed to ongoing intervention. These data will be useful in future intervention situations when there is a need to increase motivation to change.
The replacement of 7-8% of fat intake with complex carbohydrates over 6 y was not associated with clinically adverse effects on triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, or lipoprotein subclasses. Diabetic white women with higher triglyceride concentrations may have greater increases in triglycerides.
Over a mean of 8.1 years, a dietary intervention that reduced total fat intake and increased intakes of vegetables, fruits, and grains did not significantly reduce the risk of CHD, stroke, or CVD in postmenopausal women and achieved only modest effects on CVD risk factors, suggesting that more focused diet and lifestyle interventions may be needed to improve risk factors and reduce CVD risk.
The WHI FFQ produced nutrient estimate, that were similar to those obtained from short-term dietary recall and recording methods. Comparison of WHI FFQ nutrient intake measures to independent and unbiased measures, such as doubly labeled water estimates of energy expenditure, are needed to help address the validity of the FFQ in this population.
Among postmenopausal women, a low-fat dietary pattern did not result in a statistically significant reduction in invasive breast cancer risk over an 8.1-year average follow-up period. However, the nonsignificant trends observed suggesting reduced risk associated with a low-fat dietary pattern indicate that longer, planned, nonintervention follow-up may yield a more definitive comparison.
A low-fat dietary pattern may reduce the incidence of ovarian cancer among postmenopausal women.
A low-fat dietary pattern among generally healthy postmenopausal women showed no evidence of reducing diabetes risk after 8.1 years. Trends toward reduced incidence were greater with greater decreases in total fat intake and weight loss. Weight loss, rather than macronutrient composition, may be the dominant predictor of reduced risk of diabetes.
The strongest predictors of dietary change and maintenance were attending intervention sessions and self-monitoring dietary intake. Novel was the finding that optimism predicted dietary change.
In older White, Black, and Hispanic women, a long-term low-fat dietary intervention was accompanied by modest, but statistically significant, decreases in body weight and anthropometric indices, without any particular attempt being made to reduce calories. Changes in glucose and insulin were small. The long-term biological significance of the glucose and insulin changes is unknown.
A lifestyle intervention reducing dietary fat intake, with modest influence on body weight, may improve relapse-free survival of breast cancer patients receiving conventional cancer management. Longer, ongoing nonintervention follow-up will address original protocol design plans, which called for 3 years of follow-up after completion of recruitment.
In high risk populations, long-term studies with surrogate endpoints may be misleading because of missing data in patients where a large increase in IMT would have been observed, had they been re-examined. Another important conclusion from our study was that the gloomy prognosis for this patient category may be improved by a dedicated risk factor intervention programme. The improved prognosis was observed mainly in those patients at highest risk judged from history of cardiovascular disease or positive ultrasound plaque status at baseline.
Improvement in self-reported dietary intake was significantly greater in the SI group, while reduction in blood cholesterol was similar in both groups.
Setting up a register and recall system improved patient assessment at 18 months' follow up but was not consistently better than audit alone in improving treatment or risk factor levels. Understanding the reasons for this is the key next step in improving the quality of care of patients with coronary heart disease.
Both diets were associated with sustained reductions in weight and plasma lipid concentrations. In an analysis controlling for medication changes, a low-fat vegan diet appeared to improve glycemia and plasma lipids more than did conventional diabetes diet recommendations. Whether the observed differences provide clinical benefit for the macro- or microvascular complications of diabetes remains to be established. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
We found significant small but consistent differential changes associated with a minimal self-help intervention, but we cannot rule out the possibility of some response bias. Nonetheless, this study demonstrates that the use of self-help materials for dietary change is feasible, and may be effective.
In individuals with type 2 diabetes, high-MUFA diets are an alternative to conventional lower-fat, high-CHO diets with comparable beneficial effects on body weight, body composition, cardiovascular risk factors, and glycemic control.
Usual care dietary advice can be effective in lipid management, weight loss is important and associates with greater responses to lipid medication although statin monotherapy may not be affected. However, average responses are modest and physicians are not well informed of the dietary principles involved.
A behaviorally based nutrition education program following cholesterol screening can have a meaningful impact on long-term cholesterol levels at a low cost. Nutrition education in work-sites may therefore be a useful way to lower the risk of heart disease in communities.
The impact of nutrition intervention delivered through physician practices on serum cholesterol levels is less than clinically desirable, and new approaches with more aggressive therapy should be tested and implemented.
A low-fat, high-polysaccharide diet in overweight individuals with abnormal intermediary metabolism led to moderate weight loss and some improvement in serum cholesterol. Increasing simple carbohydrates did not promote weight gain, but nor was there improvement in body weight or lipid profile.
Diet and/or exercise interventions led to a significant decrease in the incidence of diabetes over a 6-year period among those with IGT.
After 1 year, moderate restriction of dietary fat intake attains meaningful and sustained LDL-C reductions in HC subjects and apoprotein B reductions in both HC and CHL subjects. More extreme restriction of fat intake offers little further advantage in HC or CHL subjects and potentially undesirable effects in HC subjects.
Recruiting a large cohort of HC and CHL subjects from an industrial workforce is feasible in a restricted time frame. CHL subjects demonstrate features of the insulin resistance/hypertension syndrome, differing from HC subjects. CHL is sufficiently common relative to HC (2:3) to permit a comparison of dietary responses between the two conditions. Finally, the randomization of HC and CHL subjects to the diets yielded statistically indistinguishable groups, permitting a test of the efficacy of the alternative diets within each hyperlipidemic (HL) category.
A diet rich in fruits, vegetables, and low-fat dairy foods and with reduced saturated and total fat can substantially lower blood pressure. This diet offers an additional nutritional approach to preventing and treating hypertension.
In nonsmokers, an intervention program that included nutrition counseling to produce reductions in weight, serum cholesterol, and (along with antihypertensive medication) blood pressure reduced the risk for diabetes.
Mediterranean and low-carbohydrate diets may be effective alternatives to low-fat diets. The more favorable effects on lipids (with the low-carbohydrate diet) and on glycemic control (with the Mediterranean diet) suggest that personal preferences and metabolic considerations might inform individualized tailoring of dietary interventions. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The elevated levels of MMP-9 in smokers and the reduced levels of TIMP-1 in patients with previous AMI reflect an importance of MMPs in the development of CVD. Intervention with diet and/or n-3 PUFA supplementation did not influence the levels of MMP-9, TIMP-1 or PAPP-A in the present population.
Each intervention (dietary counseling or n-3 PUFA supplements) reduced sTM and sICAM-1 concentrations, indicating decreased endothelial activation. The tPAag increase in the groups not receiving dietary counseling (pooled), which indicates progression of atherosclerosis, was significantly counteracted by dietary counseling.
IL-18 was an independent predictor of cardiovascular events in subjects with metabolic syndrome and even more so in the presence of elevated fasting glucose. Our findings suggest a mutually potentiating effect of hyperglycemia and inflammation in cardiovascular risk prediction.
The results suggest that habit in addition to subjective norm and the other more frequently investigated psychosocial determinants are important in predicting intention to change fat consumption. To achieve sustainable health improvement through nutrition education programs, these programs should therefore start focusing more on subjective norm and habit.
This low-intensity intervention was effective in dietary behavior change.
Regardless of intervention group, lifestyle modification improved liver histology, as verified by repeat biopsy, after a 6-month intervention. This study reinforces the importance of lifestyle modification as the primary treatment strategy for patients with NAFLD.
In patients with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes, an LCMD resulted in a greater reduction of HbA1c levels, higher rate of diabetes remission, and delayed need for diabetes medication compared with a low-fat diet.
A slight reduction in saturated fat intake, along with the use of extra-virgin olive oil, markedly lowers daily antihypertensive dosage requirement, possibly through enhanced nitric oxide levels stimulated by polyphenols.
The low-carbohydrate diet produced a greater weight loss (absolute difference, approximately 4 percent) than did the conventional diet for the first six months, but the differences were not significant at one year. The low-carbohydrate diet was associated with a greater improvement in some risk factors for coronary heart disease. Adherence was poor and attrition was high in both groups. Longer and larger studies are required to determine the long-term safety and efficacy of low-carbohydrate, high-protein, high-fat diets.
In healthy obese individuals, a low-carbohydrate high-protein weight-loss diet over 2 years was not associated with noticeably harmful effects on GFR, albuminuria, or fluid and electrolyte balance compared with a low-fat diet. Further follow-up is needed to determine even longer-term effects on kidney function.
Dietary modification in accordance with the Food Guide Pyramid and the US Dietary Guidelines results in significant reductions in known cardiovascular risk factors and improves the response to exercise training.
Both lifestyle interventions improved the nutritional habits of obese women during pregnancy. Neither PA nor GWG was affected.
(1) Low-income public clinic patients will participate in diet interventions, (2) computer-generated interactive phone calls are feasible in this population, and (3) clinically meaningful decreases in serum cholesterol are difficult to achieve with interventions of practical intensity.
To conclude, advice to follow LCD or LFD had similar effects on weight reduction while effects on inflammation differed. Only LCD was found significantly to improve the subclinical inflammatory state in type 2 diabetes.
A relatively modest, but systematic counselling in primary health care can, at least among untreated hypertensive subjects, produce reductions in blood pressure levels that are modest for the individual, but very important from the public health point of view.
The culturally based nutrition intervention promoted small but positive changes in weight. Greater frequency and longer duration of educational support may be needed to influence blood glucose and lipid parameters.
These results suggest that weight loss is the preferred treatment to improve coronary artery disease risk factors in overweight, middle-aged and older men.
Fish oil supplementation has a beneficial effect on endothelial function, even in normal healthy subjects. Modification of the diet by an increase of 6% in eicosapentaenoic acid and 27% in docosahexaenoic acid (equivalent to eating oily fish 2-3 times/week) might have significant beneficial effects on cardiovascular function and health.
The implementation of a group-based, non-intensive dietary counseling proved to be practical and feasible in "real-world" community settings and was accompanied by favorable dietary changes and health benefits.
The PRISMA program reduced energy and macronutrient intake up to 6 months. After 6 months, attention should be paid to patients' food product choices. Follow-up counselling might further improve long-term outcome. This pilot study shows that the PRISMA program is promising in decreasing dietary intake in newly diagnosed and established overweight type 2 diabetes patients in secondary care.
In showing that the colostrum adiponectin concentration is markedly dependent on maternal diet and nutritional status during pregnancy, and considering that colostrum adiponectin has potential effects on metabolism, nutrition, and immune function in the neonates, the results of this study underscore the importance of the metabolic homeostasis of the mother for the child's initial nutritional environment.
An individually delivered implementation intentions intervention may reduce saturated fat intake among patients after MI.
Although the study cannot be completely shielded from minor biases, the data presented here provide evidence that the dietary modifications per se were protective, not other (including psychosocial) changes resulting from the participation to the trial.
The protective effect of the Mediterranean dietary pattern was maintained up to 4 years after the first infarction, confirming previous intermediate analyses. Major traditional risk factors, such as high blood cholesterol and blood pressure, were shown to be independent and joint predictors of recurrence, indicating that the Mediterranean dietary pattern did not alter, at least qualitatively, the usual relationships between major risk factors and recurrence. Thus, a comprehensive strategy to decrease cardiovascular morbidity and mortality should include primarily a cardioprotective diet. It should be associated with other (pharmacological?) means aimed at reducing modifiable risk factors. Further trials combining the 2 approaches are warranted.
These data show a protective effect of the Mediterranean diet. However, the risk reduction varied depending on the type of end point considered. Our hypothesis is that different pathogenetic mechanisms were responsible for the development of the various complications. It is likely that certain nutriments characteristic of the Mediterranean diet (omega-3 fatty acids, oleic acid antioxidant vitamins) have specific cardioprotective effects.
This randomized trial suggests that patients following a cardioprotective Mediterranean diet have a prolonged survival and may also be protected against cancer. Further studies are warranted to confirm the data and to explore the role of the different lipids and fatty acids in this protection.
Increased ALA intakes decrease the estimated IHD risk to an extent similar to that found with increased LA intakes. Group nutritional education can effectively increase fish intake.
The nut and olive oil diets induced a fatty acid composition that has been shown to be beneficial in the face of MetS. Therefore, a Mediterranean diet rich in fats of vegetable origin may be a useful tool for the management of MetS without the need for concerns over weight gain due to its high fat content.
Nutritionally balanced meals that meet the recommendations of national health organizations improved multiple risk factors for patients with cardiovascular disease. The CCNW plan resulted in greater clinical benefits, nutritional completeness, and compliance than the self-selected diet. The CCNW is a comprehensive nutrition plan, convenient for both prescription and practice, and appears viable for effecting favorable dietary changes in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease.
A moderate-fat, Mediterranean-style diet, controlled in energy, offers an alternative to a low-fat diet with superior long-term participation and adherence, with consequent improvements in weight loss.
These 2 polymorphic loci are thus differently associated with the baseline lipid markers as well as with the response to nutritional recommendations, but both presented a marked sex-specific profile, with the response to diet being particularly efficient in men homozygous for the MTTP -493T allele.
The comparability of the two arms is notable and warrants a low risk of biases. Current diet departs from the traditional Mediterranean one. The assessment of nutritional intake is validated by correlations obtained between dietary intake and relevant biomarkers. This will be important to estimate participant compliance and to analyse intervention data.
The effect of trans fatty acids on the serum lipoprotein profile is at least as unfavorable as that of the cholesterol-raising saturated fatty acids, because they not only raise LDL cholesterol levels but also lower HDL cholesterol levels.
Adoption of a Mediterranean diet by patients with medically treated CAD has no effect on markers of inflammation and metabolic risk factors.
This study demonstrates that modification of diet can favorably affect serum antioxidant capacity and protect against lipid peroxidation.
In the long term, there were few differences in the outcome of the three dietary prescriptions. Even with intensive instruction, participants found it difficult to meet recommended nutrient intakes; however, specific dietary advice did result in an improvement in LDL cholesterol. Adverse changes in HDL cholesterol and TG because of diet intervention were transient. The significant improvement in glycemic control during the recruitment phase may have been the result of participants' previous dietary knowledge and the increased attention that they received during the intervention.
An 18-week intervention program in a corporate setting reduces intake of total fat, saturated fat and cholesterol and increases the intake of protective nutrients, particularly fiber, β-carotene, vitamin C, magnesium and potassium. The reduction in calcium intake indicates the need for planning for this nutrient.
Diet composition had no major effect on preventing weight regain. However, both the LF and MUFA diets produced less body fat regain than did the control diet, and the dropout rate was lowest in the LF diet group, whereas fasting insulin decreased and the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and ratio of LDL to HDL improved with the MUFA diet. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
There are few data on the dietary and breast health behaviors of young low-acculturated Latino women. This study documents the feasibility of recruiting, randomizing, and obtaining both baseline dietary and breast health data on this unique and underserved population.
This project provides a successful model for achieving dietary change and improving breast health behavior in young, low-acculturated Latinas.
Regular exercise in overweight men and women enhances the improvement in plasma lipoprotein levels that results from the adoption of a low-saturated-fat, low-cholesterol diet.
Baseline data show moderate screening participation and dietary intakes that did not meet guidelines; hence intervention efforts were warranted. Data from this trial will support a rigorous test of whether this high-risk employee population is responsive to targeted health promotion, early cancer detection, and prevention interventions.
Exercise and diet intervention and in particular the combination of the two, were effective in improving carbohydrate metabolism. Associated risk factors were also affected in a beneficial direction.
These findings complement the findings of the Finnish Diabetes Prevention Study and the American Diabetes Prevention Study, both of which tested intensive interventions, by showing that pragmatic lifestyle interventions result in improvements in obesity and whole body insulin sensitivity in individuals with IGT, without change in other cardiovascular risk factors.
After 6 months of intensive lifestyle intervention in participants with IGT, there were changes in diet and physical activity, some cardiovascular risk factors and insulin sensitivity, but not glucose tolerance. Further follow-up is in progress to investigate whether these changes are sustained or augmented over 2 years.
Mediterranean diet, especially rich in virgin olive oil, is associated with higher levels of plasma antioxidant capacity. Plasma TAC is related to a reduction in body weight after 3 years of intervention in a high cardiovascular risk population with a Mediterranean-style diet rich in virgin olive oil.
The consumption of some typical Mediterranean foods (fruits, cereals, virgin olive oil and nuts) was associated with lower serum concentrations of inflammatory markers especially those related to endothelial function, in subjects with high cardiovascular risk living in a Mediterranean country.
We report for the first time a direct association between urinary hydroxytyrosol and alcohol consumption at a population level. These findings reinforce previous work in human and animal models that examines wine as a source of hydroxytyrosol and alcohol as an indirect promoter of endogenous hydroxytyrosol generation. This trial was registered at controlled-trials.com/isrctn/ as ISRCTN 35739639.
Some participant characteristics (marital status and baseline dietary habits) could contribute to predicting the likelihood of achieving dietary goals in interventions aimed to improve adherence to a MeDiet, and may be useful for promoting individualized long-term dietary changes and improving the effectiveness of dietary counseling.
A 12-month behavioral intervention promoting the Mediterranean diet can favorably modify an individual's overall food pattern. The individual motivational interventions together with the group sessions and the free provision of high-fat and palatable key foods customary to the Mediterranean diet were effective in improving the dietary habits of participants in this trial.
A moderate substitution of saturated fatty acids with monounsaturated fatty acids has beneficial effects on lipid metabolism also in healthy individuals. A moderate supplementation of long-chain n-3 fatty acids in healthy individuals reduces both fasting and post-prandial triacylglycerol concentrations but increases LDL cholesterol, irrespective of the type of diet.
The present study establishes the benefits of low-calorie diet and low-fat diet in management of patients with hepatitis C regarding improvement of insulin resistance, steatosis and also fibrosis.Overweight or obese patients with CHC undergoing a lifestyle intervention (specific dietary intervention and physical activity) for 1-year had significant improvements in body weight, lipid and hepatic profile.
Two-year weight loss diets can induce a significant regression of measurable carotid VWV. The effect is similar in low-fat, Mediterranean, or low-carbohydrate strategies and appears to be mediated mainly by the weight loss-induced decline in blood pressure. Clinical Trial Registration- http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique Identifier: 
A combination of increased exercise and improved diet, as well as increased exercise alone, favourably affect glucose and insulin homeostasis in middle-aged men with moderately elevated cardiovascular risk factors. The most marked changes were noted for IGFBP-1, possibly suggesting a decreased insulin secretion and an enhanced insulin sensitivity.
Cholesterol reduction was not demonstrated, but this result is difficult to interpret given the poor ongoing participation rates. Strategies to improve ongoing participation in work-site projects are needed to achieve adequate assessment of dietary interventions used in cholesterol screening.
These 4-month results are comparable to several other moderate-intensity studies showing that, in the appropriate circumstances, moderate-intensity dietary interventions can be efficacious. Study limitations include the short follow-up period and the use of self-reported outcome measures.
The Trial of Antihypertensive Interventions and Management demonstrated that weight reduction is an effective long-term therapy for maintaining blood pressure in the normal range when used as monotherapy or in combination with either thiazide diuretics or beta-blockers. Consequently, weight loss should be recommended for the management of obese individuals with mild hypertension.
Mild hypertension was generally reduced to desirable levels within 6 months by monotherapy. Evaluating blood pressure changes together with the risk factors indicated a differential effect on overall cardiovascular risk depending on the diet and drug used. Dietary therapy, particularly weight reduction, was important adjunctive treatment in reducing overall cardiovascular risk.
Our results demonstrate the feasibility of recruitment for trials of nonpharmacologic interventions in older people and suggest that mass mailing and mass media advertising campaigns provide an effective means of enrolling in such studies participants with a broad range of personal characteristics.
A report will be published in 1998 after a median duration from randomization of 11 years (range, 6 to 20 years) with an 81% power at a 1% level of significance of detecting whether the obtained improvement in glucose control causes a 15% decrease or increase in the incidence of major complications and whether any specific therapy is advantageous or disadvantageous.
A margarine with sterol-esters from soybean oil, mainly esters from sitosterol, campesterol and stigmasterol, is as effective as a margarine with sitostanol-ester in lowering blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels without affecting HDL-cholesterol concentrations. Incorporation in edible fat containing products of such substances may substantially reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease in the population.
In subjects with T2DM managed by diet alone with optimal glycemic control, long-term HbA1c was not affected by altering the GI or the amount of dietary carbohydrate. Differences in total:HDL cholesterol among diets had disappeared by 6 mo. However, because of sustained reductions in postprandial glucose and CRP, a low-GI diet may be preferred for the dietary management of T2DM.
The observational evidence does not support the hypothesis that dairy fat or high-fat dairy foods contribute to obesity or cardiometabolic risk, and suggests that high-fat dairy consumption within typical dietary patterns is inversely associated with obesity risk. Although not conclusive, these findings may provide a rationale for future research into the bioactive properties of dairy fat and the impact of bovine feeding practices on the health effects of dairy fat.
The findings of this review suggest that worksite health promotion programmes are associated with moderate improvement in dietary intake. The quality of studies to date has been frequently sub-optimal and further, well designed studies are needed in order to reliably determine effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. Future programmes to improve employee dietary habits should move beyond individual education and aim to intervene at multiple levels of the worksite environment.
There is high quality, consistent evidence that reduction of total fat intake has been achieved in large numbers of both healthy and at risk trial participants over many years. Lower total fat intake leads to small but statistically significant and clinically meaningful, sustained reductions in body weight in adults in studies with baseline fat intakes of 28-43% of energy intake and durations from six months to over eight years. Evidence supports a similar effect in children and young people.
Clinicians counselling patients before operation should routinely discuss patient preferences before risk disclosure, distinguishing among a preference for "no risk information", "all potentially relevant risks", and "those risks considered significant or likely to occur". The fact of individual patient preferences may undermine the concept of the "reasonable patient" in determination of the legal requirements for risk disclosure. Future studies, in addition to replicating the present findings, should examine the reasons underlying individual patient preferences and the long term implications of degrees of risk disclosure, particularly when adverse outcomes occur.
Current public reports, and especially reports of physician quality of care, have significant limitations from both consumer and provider perspectives. The present approach to reporting is being challenged by the development of new information sources for consumers, and consumer and provider demands for more current information.
In a single-payer system, performance reports breed provider concerns similar to those seen in market-driven systems including high-risk patient avoidance and upcoding of data. Regardless, providers recognize that institutional performance reports, irrespective of public or confidential reporting, are important in continuous quality improvement.
Given the current limitations associated with public reporting of quality and cost in orthopaedic surgery, valuable contributions can be made in developing specialty-specific evidence-based performance measures. We believe through leadership and involvement in policy formulation and development, orthopaedic surgeons are best equipped to accurately and comprehensively inform the quality reporting process and its application to improve the delivery and outcomes of orthopaedic care.
Only 12% of patients surveyed reported awareness of a prominent report on cardiac surgery mortality before undergoing cardiac surgery. Fewer than 1% knew the correct rating of their surgeon or hospital and reported that it had a moderate or major impact on their selection of provider. Efforts to aid patient decision making with performance reports are unlikely to succeed without a tailored and intensive program for dissemination and patient education.
In-exsufflator performance was very consistent. Its clinical effectiveness can be explained by its generation of exsufflation flows >2.7 l/sec. Increasing insufflation times more than exsufflation times is more important for optimal function. Current manufacturer use guidelines may not yield optimal exsufflation flows.
After careful matching the data suggest that ICU-acquired weakness worsens acute morbidity and increases healthcare-related costs and 1-year mortality. Persistence and severity of weakness at ICU discharge further increased 1-year mortality. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Patients admitted to an LTVU require prolonged hospitalizations and intensive resource utilization. These data suggest that improved methods for identifying patients who are unlikely to benefit from prolonged mechanical ventilation may assist physicians in their discussions with patients and family members as they consider various treatment options.
The greater the MIC VC difference, the greater the PCF, and, thereby, the ability to expel airway mucus and avert respiratory complications. The lower the VC, the greater the percent increase in MIC and the greater the percent increase in assisted PCF. Maximal insufflations are extremely important to increase PCF for patients with neuromuscular conditions who have VCs of < 1500 ml.
Patients in medical and surgical ICUs are at high risk for long-term cognitive impairment. A longer duration of delirium in the hospital was associated with worse global cognition and executive function scores at 3 and 12 months. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others; BRAIN-ICU ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Adequately managing simple and difficult weaning requires one to think about ICU policies in terms of sedation, fluid balance and having a systematic screening strategy; it also needs an individualized approach to understand and treat the failing patients. Prolonged weaning requires a holistic approach.
In clinically stable patients with neuromuscular diseases, the effectiveness of cough-augmentation techniques can be predicted with measurements of maximum respiratory capacity. Patients with VC > 340 mL and MEP < 34 cm H(2)O would optimally benefit from the combination of breath-stacking plus manually assisted cough to improve PCF to > 180 L/min.
Cancer, chronic renal diseases, splenectomy, and transplantation were strongly associated with an increased risk of invasive pneumococcal disease in children. For children with other chronic diseases, their excess risk seemed to be attributable mostly to frail children having repeated hospital contact rather than their underlying condition.
In contradistinction to our hypothesis, the majority of CF patients have protective preimmunization anti-pneumococcal antibody levels. However, a significant proportion-between 17% and 39%, depending on the serotype-did not exhibit adequate levels. Therefore, we concur with current recommendations for pneumococcal immunization in CF.
Rate of decline in lung function should be routinely evaluated in patients with CF, and a prediction model utilizing the rate of decline in %FEV(1), and the median regional waiting period for donor lungs for patients with CF may assist in the timing of referral for lung transplantation and more rapidly declining lung function.
Self-sampling and self-testing are feasible and acceptable options in low-income communities such as Gugulethu. As rapid diagnostic tests become available and laboratory infrastructure improves, these methodologies should be integrated into services, especially services aimed at young women.
Home-based screening for CT and GC among men is more acceptable than clinic-based screening and resulted in higher rates of screening completion. Incorporating home-based methods as adjuncts to traditional STD screening options shows promise in improving STD screening rates in men.
Both strategies resulted in significantly higher CT testing than usual care, but the intervention response rate was low (5.7% overall). Direct kit mailing performed best. In US populations, the value of mailed outreach strategies to men must be considered in the context of other CT screening priorities.
The productivity losses attributable to untreated infection with Ct and to sequelae of this infection form a substantial portion of the total economic burden of disease. Effective programs to prevent chlamydial infection and effective screening, diagnosis, and treatment of Ct-infected women may reduce productivity losses and substantially lessen the economic burden of disease to employers.
Postal chlamydia screening was feasible, but coverage was incomplete and uptake was modest. Lower coverage of postal screening in areas with more non-white residents along with poorer uptake in more deprived areas and among women at higher risk of infection could mean that screening leads to wider inequalities in sexual health.
The review provides evidence that home-based testing results in greater uptake of STI screening in females (14-50 years) than clinic-based testing without compromising quality in the developed world. Home collection strategies should be added to clinic-based screening programs to enhance uptake.
Sexual behaviours determined incidence and reinfection, regardless of healthcare setting. Our results suggest annual screening of women aged 16-24 years who are chlamydia negative, or sooner if partner change occurs. Rescreening chlamydia-positive women within 6 months of baseline infection may be sensible, especially if partner change occurs or all partners are not treated.
Whereas increased beta-carotene, selenium, and fatty acid concentrations are linked to improved lung function, increased plasma fatty acid concentrations are linked to oxidative stress. If oxidative stress is deemed to be important to the clinical outcome of CF patients, means of reducing oxidative stress while maintaining a high-fat, high-energy diet must be investigated.
In the present clinical setting, the use of nasal positive airway pressure in an intermittent way is associated to a more physiological arterial carbon dioxide tension, less apnoea and a shorter duration of respiratory support when compared with continuous pressure delivery by the same route.
Both 30-day mortality rate and mortality rate after complications (failure-to-rescue) were lower when anesthesiologists directed anesthesia care. These results suggest that surgical outcomes in Medicare patients are associated with anesthesiologist direction, and may provide insight regarding potential approaches for improving surgical outcomes. (Key words: Anesthesiologists; anesthesia care team; quality of care; mortality; failure-to-rescue; complication; Medicare; general surgery; orthopedics.)
In view of the paucity of high-level primary evidence in this area, it is not possible to draw a conclusion regarding differences in patient safety as a function of provider type. There are difficulties in classifying events as "anaesthesia-related", and also in the variable definitions of "supervision" and "anaesthesia care team". We suggest that existing attempts to show differences in outcome might usefully be complemented by studies examining measures of anaesthetic process.
MI is well accepted by patients suffering from psychosis and has a short-term impact on cannabis use when added to standard care. However, the differential effect was not maintained at 1-year follow-up. MI appears to be a useful active component to reduce cannabis use which should be integrated in routine clinical practice.
Over the early phase of psychotic illness, group psychological interventions for those with comorbid cannabis dependence improved subjective quality of life. However, this was not associated with reduction in use of cannabis or improvement in clinical outcomes.
Integrated motivational interviewing and cognitive behavioural therapy for people with psychosis and substance misuse do not improve outcome in terms of hospitalisation, symptom outcomes, or functioning. This approach does reduce the amount of substance used for at least one year after completion of therapy.
Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol is associated with transient exacerbation in core psychotic and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. These data do not provide a reason to explain why schizophrenia patients use or misuse cannabis. Furthermore, Delta-9-THC might differentially affect schizophrenia patients relative to control subjects. Finally, the enhanced sensitivity to the cognitive effects of Delta-9-THC warrants further study into whether brain cannabinoid receptor dysfunction contributes to the pathophysiology of the cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia.
The high proportion of subjects reporting non-alcohol substance misuse is comparable with figures from the USA. The reports of lifetime misuse most commonly referred to cannabis, psychostimulants, LSD, opiates and anticholinergics. Misuse was concentrated in those younger than 36 years and was reported more often by males.
None of the measures of social functioning reviewed is clearly superior to the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale for use on axis V. A modified version of the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale, separating the measures of social and occupational functioning from the measures of symptoms and psychological functioning, is proposed for field testing, along with a new set of instructions permitting the rating of limitations due to both physical and mental impairments.
The results provide a better framework for understanding the clinical meaning of the PANSS total score in drug trials of schizophrenia patients with acute exacerbations. Such studies may ideally use at least a 50% reduction from baseline cut-off to define response rather than lower thresholds. In treatment resistant populations, however, even a small improvement can be important, so that a 25% cut-off might be appropriate.
More research is required that applies sound methodological practices, taking into consideration specificity for schizophrenia and possible confounding factors, to robustly identify the non-genetic risk factors and putative antecedents of schizophrenia.
L-AmB 5 mg/kg once weekly was generally well tolerated in these VLBW infants. The data did not allow evaluation of efficacy. A larger, multicenter, randomized clinical trial of L-AmB for Candida prophylaxis that is appropriately powered is warranted.
Fluconazole prophylaxis for the prevention of invasive Candida infections is safe in extremely low birth weight infants and does not appear to be associated with any long-term adverse effects on neurodevelopment and quality of life at 8 to 10 years of life.
Twice weekly dosing of prophylactic fluconazole can decrease Candida colonization and invasive infection, cost, and patient exposure in high-risk, preterm infants weighing <1000 grams at birth. We speculate that lower and less frequent dosing may delay or prevent the emergence of antifungal resistance.
Prophylactic fluconazole reduces the incidence of colonization and invasive candida infection in neonates weighing less than 1500 g at birth. The benefit of treating candida colonization is unclear. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN85753869 [controlled-trials.com]).
Prophylactic fluconazole significantly reduces the incidence of colonization and systemic infection by Candida species in both ELBW and NE-VLBW neonates and decreases the rates of progression from initial colonization to massive colonization and to systemic infection. All VLBW neonates may benefit from fluconazole prophylaxis.
Infants treated with amphotericin B lipid products had higher mortality than infants treated with either amphotericin B deoxycholate or fluconazole. This finding may be related to inadequate penetration of amphotericin B lipid products into the kidneys, inappropriate dosing in premature infants, or unknown differences in acuity of illness in infants treated with amphotericin B lipid products.
Given the heterogeneity of the medical literature, precise estimates of the frequencies of end-organ damage are not possible and a prospective multicenter trial is warranted, but the data from the published literature suggest that the prevalence of neonates with end-organ damage not only is greater than 0 but also is high enough that until such a prospective trial is completed, end-organ studies should be considered before the conclusion of antifungal therapy.
Although preliminary data suggest that fluconazole is efficacious to prevent candidemia in a subset of neonates, this practice is not used widely by clinicians who care for very low birth weight infants. Additional efficacy studies should address the emergence of antifungal resistance or clarification of criteria to initiate prophylaxis, including the role of surveillance cultures.
The incidence of invasive fungal infection in VLBW and ELBW infants in the United Kingdom is lower than reported in previous studies from tertiary centres in North America and elsewhere. The associated late neonatal and post-neonatal death rates are substantially higher than expected in infants without invasive fungal infection. These data may inform decisions about the evaluation and use of antifungal infection control strategies.
Systemic Candida infection is associated with increased short and long term morbidity in extremely low birth weight infants. Candida infection of the central nervous system has a significant impact on long term neurodevelopmental outcome. Performance of cranial ultrasound examination is recommended as a part of the diagnostic investigation in these infants. Detection of brain parenchymal involvement might provide further information to predict outcome.
There have been major changes in both obstetric and neonatal care during the 1990s. These changes were associated with decreases in mortality and morbidity for VLBW infants during the first half of the decade. However, since 1995, no additional improvements in mortality or morbidity have been seen, ending a decades-long trend of improving outcomes for these infants.
This is the largest report of sepsis in VLBW infants to date. Incidence for early-onset sepsis and late-onset sepsis has changed little over this 14-year period, and overall mortality in VLBW infants with early- and late-onset sepsis is higher than in infants with negative cultures.
Major concerns about the use of fluconazole prophylaxis include its efficacy, the risk of emergence of resistant species and the absence of clear consensus to support routine use. Future studies that address these issues will contribute to a more rational use of fluconazole prophylaxis.
Our data indicate that, irrespective of crossreactive immunologic material status, patients with infantile Pompe disease with high sustained antibody titer have an attenuated therapeutic response to enzyme replacement therapy. With the advent of immunomodulation therapies, identification of patients at risk for developing high sustained antibody titer is critical.
Overall, young people's experiences of early secondary school and their relationships with others may continue to affect their moods, their substance use in later years, and their likelihood of completing secondary school. Having both good school connectedness and good social connectedness is associated with the best outcomes. The challenge is how to promote both school and social connectedness to best achieve these health and learning outcomes.
Our findings suggest that there is a large group of adolescents with chronic health conditions for whom their illness or disability has an impact on their daily activities and ability to socialize with their peers. These students are more likely to experience emotional distress and require support and opportunities for healthy youth development.
Specific subgroups of children with special health care needs are at increased risk for poor school outcomes. Health and school professionals will need to collaborate to identify these children early, intervene with appropriate medical and educational services, and monitor long-term outcomes.
The core research implications of this study concern measurement issues that need to be addressed in future large-scale studies. Clinical implications of this research concern the need for co-ordinated services between the home, hospital and school settings so that services and programmes focus on the ecology of the child who is ill.
Child chronic illness at school entry is associated with poorer longitudinal child and maternal outcomes. Therefore, future research should aim to determine the risk and protective factors that contribute to the poorer child and parent outcomes experienced in this growing population.
Early lavage with dilute surfactant solution at a phospholipid concentration of either 5 mg/mL or 10 mg/mL is effective for the treatment of severe MAS. Further large-scale, prospective, randomized, controlled trials are necessary to establish the optimal dose, concentration, surfactant product, and instillation method of this treatment before it can be recommended for routine use.
Surfactant therapy in full-term infants with respiratory failure due to the meconium aspiration and respiratory distress syndromes is often effective in improving gas exchange. A randomized controlled trial of surfactant therapy at an earlier stage in the course of the illness should be performed.
Compared with the intratracheal injection of PS, endotracheal lavage with diluted PS in term neonates with severe MAS can increase ventilation and oxygenation efficiency, shorten the duration of mechanical ventilation, reduce the complication rate, and increase the cure rate, indicating that this method is a safe and effective therapeutic strategy.
In people with schizophrenia whose medication is changed for clinical reasons, there is no disadvantage across 1 year in terms of quality of life, symptoms, or associated costs of care in using FGAs rather than nonclozapine SGAs. Neither inadequate power nor patterns of drug discontinuation accounted for the result.
The majority of patients in each group discontinued their assigned treatment owing to inefficacy or intolerable side effects or for other reasons. Olanzapine was the most effective in terms of the rates of discontinuation, and the efficacy of the conventional antipsychotic agent perphenazine appeared similar to that of quetiapine, risperidone, and ziprasidone. Olanzapine was associated with greater weight gain and increases in measures of glucose and lipid metabolism.
Use of 25 mm needles significantly reduced rates of local reaction to routine infant immunisation. On average, for every five infants vaccinated, use of the longer needle instead of the shorter needle would prevent one infant from experiencing any local reaction. Vaccine manufacturers should review their policy of supplying the shorter needle in vaccine packs.
The use of same length needles with narrower (25) or wider (23) gauge did not show significant differences in local reactogenicity during primary immunization. Fever, however, was reduced marginally in 25 gauge group whereas crying duration was significantly shorter with 23 gauge needle. Finally, larger studies are needed to further evaluate objectively the outcome of reactogenicity.
Risk of bias assessments of RCTs using the RoB tool are not consistent across different research groups. Poor agreement was not only demonstrated at the trial level but also at the meta-analysis level. Results have implications for decision making since different recommendations can be reached depending on the group analyzing the evidence. Improved guidelines to consistently apply the RoB tool and revisions to the tool for different health areas are needed.
Diversity in safety methods leads to considerable loss of scientific information. We have built the necessary international network of currently about 300 participants from patient care, public health, scientific, pharmaceutical, regulatory and professional organizations to develop and assess standardized AEFI case definitions and guidelines. Evaluation studies, global implementation, ongoing definition development and a continuously growing network will be essential for the success of the collaboration.
DTaP(5)-IPV-Hib combination vaccine was shown to be immunogenic and well tolerated. No clinically important differences in the safety or immunologic profiles were noted for DTaP(5)-IPV-Hib versus the separately administered, US-licensed equivalent vaccines. DTaP(5)-IPV-Hib is a suitable replacement for separately administered DTaP, IPV, and Hib vaccines.
On average, non-blinded assessors of subjective binary outcomes generated substantially biased effect estimates in randomised clinical trials, exaggerating odds ratios by 36%. This bias was compatible with a high rate of agreement between blinded and non-blinded outcome assessors and driven by the misclassification of few patients.
Following co-administration with PCV7 the investigational DTaP-IPV-Hep B-PRP-T vaccine was safe and immunogenic. Non-inferiority to DTaP-IPV-Hep B//PRP-T was shown for Hep B and PRP.
Among healthy adults of the age range we studied, the following needle lengths appear to be appropriate for true deltoid intramuscular immunization: For men across the weight ranges we studied (59-118 kg), use of a 25-mm (1-in) needle would result in at least 5 mm of muscle penetration in all subjects. For women who weighed less than 60 kg, a 16-mm (5/8-in) needle would be sufficient to achieve muscle penetration of 5 mm. For women between 60 and 90 kg, a 25-mm (1-in) needle would be sufficient, and women greater than 90 kg would require a 38-mm (1.5-in) needle to ensure intramuscular administration.
Pain during immunization can be decreased by: (1) injecting the least painful formulation of a vaccine; (2) having the child sit up (or holding an infant); (3) stroking the skin or applying pressure close to the injection site before and during injection; (4) injecting the least painful vaccine first when 2 vaccines are being administered sequentially during a single office visit; and (5) performing a rapid intramuscular injection without aspiration.
Physicians have more concerns than parents about the administration of multiple injections at a single visit. Pain for the child was the main concern of all respondents. While most physicians have strong concerns about administering three or more injections at one visit, most parents prefer this practice. Continued education and reassurance of parents and physicians is needed to address concerns about children becoming "pincushions" from immunizations.
Assistive technology is applied to education of students with visual impairment; however, teachers indicate the need for infrastructure and pedagogical support. Information technology is an important tool in the inclusion process and can promote independence and autonomy of students with visual impairment.
There is evidence of a temporal decline in the incidence of VI and SVI/BL in births from 1984 to 1998 especially in very preterm and low birthweight infants. Early childhood mortality was high. The causes of visual impairment in UK children are numerous, complex and often part of a wider picture of childhood disability.
Pediatric vision impairment has significant effects on HRQoL, as reported by children with vision impairment and their parents in their own words. These findings will provide the content to guide construction of a survey instrument to assess vision-specific, HRQoL in children with vision impairment.
A high proportion of students with low vision in integrated schools could benefit from optical intervention. A system of comprehensive eye examination at the time of school enrollment would allow students with low vision to use their available vision to the fullest, encourage print reading over braille, ensure appropriate placement, and promote timely adoption and proper usage of optical device.
Reading performance is strongly associated with vision-related quality of life. High-contrast distance acuity is not the only relevant measure of visual function in relation to the perceived visual performance of a patient with macular disease. The results suggest the importance of print contrast, even over print size, in reading performance in patients with acquired macular disease.
The reliability and validity of the NEI VFQ-25 are comparable to those of the 51-item NEI VFQ field test version of the survey. This shorter version will be more feasible in settings such as clinical trials where interview length is a critical consideration. In addition, preliminary analyses indicate that the psychometric properties of the NEI VFQ-25 are robust for the eye conditions studied; this suggests that the measure will provide reproducible and valid data when used across multiple conditions of varying severity.
Rehabilitative demand, an algorithm for defining vision disability, incorporates interval measures of visual ability and the value of independent living estimated from patient-based assessments, a social scale of the value of activities relative to independent living, and a consensus opinion of low vision experts on the prioritization of the need for rehabilitation.
This study showed that reading index is valuable in predicting the ability to perform daily living tasks and therefore may be useful in the visual assessment of the visually impaired individual. In addition, this study identified specific levels of vision at which individuals reported different degrees of difficulty in performing daily living tasks.
We have developed a novel, psychometrically robust self-report questionnaire for children and young people-the FVQ_CYP-that captures the functional impact of visual disability from their perspective. The 36-item, 4-point unidimensional scale has potential as a complementary adjunct to objective clinical assessments in routine pediatric ophthalmology practice and in research.
The low within-subject variability shows the equivalence of the texts. The IReST (second edition) can now be provided in 17 languages allowing standardized assessment of reading speed, as well as comparability of results before and after interventions, and is a useful tool for multi-language studies (for further information see www.amd-read.net).
This study provides support that the IVI has sufficient internal and construct validity to measure the effect of vision impairment on restriction of participation in daily activities. The IVI demonstrates acceptable reliability over a short period and yields consistent results between interviewers. The IVI can also be self-administered with assurance that the results will be comparable to those that would have been obtained by a trained interviewer. Therefore, the psychometric characteristics of the IVI support its use in assessment of the vision rehabilitation needs of people with impaired vision. Its stability over time indicates that it has potential to evaluate outcomes of intervention.
The LVQOL was shown to be an internally consistent, reliable, and fast method for measuring the vision-specific quality of life of the visually impaired in a clinical setting. It is able to quantify the quality of life of those with low vision and is useful in determining the effects of low-vision rehabilitation.
The finding of larger hippocampal volume in autism is suggestive of abnormal early neurodevelopmental processes but is partly consistent with only one prior study and contradicts the findings of several others. The finding of larger hippocampal volume for the parental group suggests a potential genetic basis for hippocampal abnormalities in autism.
The prevalence of infection after orthognathic surgery was relatively low given the complexity of the procedures. No particular orthognathic procedure was more susceptible to infection. A preoperative dose of prophylactic antibiotics together with at least 2 days of postoperative doses was useful in reducing the infection rate compared with only a single dose of prophylactic antibiotics.
Significant changes in QOL occurred following orthognathic surgery. A marked but transient deterioration in many aspects related to general well being was noted in the early postoperative period and significant improvement was documented by 6 months. A comprehensive assessment of QOL using generic health, generic oral health, and condition-specific approaches proved useful in determining such changes.
Age can be defined as a primary risk factor for plate removal, whereas gender and plate material are secondary. Although age and gender are not controllable, the use of titanium plates and infection control may lower the number of symptomatic plates and the need for their removal.
This study provides nationwide estimates of hospital discharge patterns and outcomes in patients undergoing orthognathic surgeries in United States hospitals. Future studies should examine factors associated with outcomes.
Vecuronium-induced partial paralysis cause pharyngeal dysfunction and increased risk for aspiration at mechanical adductor pollicis TOF ratios < 0.90. Pharyngeal function is not normalized until an adductor pollicis TOF ratio of > 0.90 is reached. The upper esophageal sphincter muscle is more sensitive to vecuronium than is the pharyngeal constrictor muscle.
All subjects had significant signs and symptoms of residual block at a TOF ratio of 0.70; none considered themselves remotely "street ready" at this time. The authors believe that satisfactory recovery of neuromuscular function after mivacurium-induced neuromuscular block requires return of the TOF ratio to a value > 0.90 and ideally to unity.
This open trial demonstrates that it is safe to administer eggs from the porcine whipworm, Trichuris suis, to patients with CD and UC. It also demonstrates improvement in the common clinical indices used to describe disease activity. The benefit was temporary in some patients with a single dose, but it could be prolonged with maintenance therapy every 3 wk. The study suggests that it is possible to downregulate aberrant intestinal inflammation in humans with helminths.
We found that when infants drank sucrose or sterile water, significantly fewer pain vocalizations were produced, but only for 2-week-old infants. For older infants, differences were found only when the number of injections was included in the analysis. We expand on previous findings by demonstrating that both the age of the child and the number of painful exposures can attenuate calming effects. In addition, the results suggest that in the absence of nonnutritive sucking, the actual analgesic effects of sucrose may be nonspecific. Further study is needed of the possible analgesic effects of sucrose.
As in newborns, a significant calming effect of sucrose taste that persisted beyond the cessation of mouthing could be elicited in crying 6-week-old infants, but it required a stronger taste stimulus to do so. As predicted, infants with colic were less effectively calmed by sucrose taste than infants without. These differential effects could not be accounted for by differences in crying when the stimulus was applied or by differences in mouthing behavior. Before a feed, these differences in calming were specific to sucrose taste. After a feed, infants with c
Evidence suggests that breathing exercises, child-directed distraction, nurse-led distraction, and combined cognitive-behavioral interventions are effective in reducing the pain and distress associated with routine childhood immunizations. Although additional well-designed trials examining psychological interventions are needed, parents and health care professionals should be advised to incorporate psychological interventions to reduce the pain and distress experienced by children during immunization.
While children as a group innately like sweets and feel better after eating them, the present study reveals significant contributions of family history of alcoholism and depression to this effect. Whether the heightened sweet preference and the use of sweets to alleviate depression are markers for developing alcohol-related problems or responses that are protective are important areas for future research.
Findings suggest there is a group of children in the pediatric intensive care unit who are at higher risk for developing persistent psychological sequelae postdischarge. Exposure to high numbers of invasive procedures may be the driving force behind group differences, particularly at 6 wks postdischarge. These children warrant closer observation and follow-up.
The CCIIS is a new self-report measure with demonstrated content validity and specific relevance for young school-aged children following pediatric intensive care unit hospitalization. Valid, accessible, and developmentally appropriate measures are essential to identify high-risk children and, ultimately, promote healthy growth and development.
There was no overall treatment effect when using an oral sucrose solution before bladder catheterization in infants younger than 90 days of age. However, infants younger than or equal to 30 days of age who received sucrose had smaller increases in pain scores, less crying, and returned to baseline more rapidly than infants receiving placebo. Older infants did not show an improved pain response with oral sucrose.
Most ESS procedures can be managed without packing or any other hemostatic measures. Local anesthesia, use of local vasoconstrictors, and careful operative technique minimize the need for nose packing, thus reducing patient's discomfort, postoperative complications, and cost of surgery.
The absorbable pack did not significantly reduce the risk of bleeding or patient discomfort compared with a traditional nonabsorbable MMS and was associated with significantly slower mucosal healing initially, an effect that disappeared after 3 months postoperatively. There was no significant patient preference for either pack.
Young children with CF who have upper and lower airway P aeruginosa infection have increased endobronchial inflammation and poorer clinical status compared with those with only upper airway P aeruginosa infection. The independent and additive effects of S aureus on inflammation support the significance of polymicrobial infection in early CF lung disease.
CAP phase A3 frequency increased under clonidine, but paradoxically, RMMA/SB decreased. RMMA/SB was associated with and facilitated in CAP phase A2 and A3 rhythms. However, SB generation could be influenced by other factors besides sleep arousal pressure. NREM/REM ultradian cyclic arousal fluctuations may be required for RMMA/SB onset.
A single BoNT-A injection is an effective strategy for controlling SB for at least a month. It reduces the intensity rather than the generation of the contraction in jaw-closing muscles. Future investigations on the efficacy and safety in larger samples over a longer follow-up period are needed before establishing management strategies for SB with BoNT-A.
Sleep bruxism is common in the general population and represents the third most frequent parasomnia. It has numerous consequences, which are not limited to dental or muscular problems. Among the associated risk factors, patients with anxiety and sleep-disordered breathing have a higher number of risk factors for sleep bruxism, and this must raise concerns about the future of these individuals. An educational effort to raise the awareness of dentists and physicians about this pathology is necessary.
Oral tocofersolan was more bioavailable than the reference formulation in children with chronic cholestasis and similarly bioavailable in cystic fibrosis. Tocofersolan may represent an alternative to painful intramuscular vitamin E injections in chronic cholestasis, or to other oral formulations in cystic fibrosis.
In this study, AquADEKs® increased systemic antioxidant levels, while maintaining vitamin A levels in the normal range, and improved but did not completely normalize vitamin D and K status. Increased β-carotene levels were associated with improved growth parameters. These results warrant further clinical evaluation in CF.
This is the first study to describe physiologic measurements from infancy through the preschool years in subjects with CF and healthy control subjects, the understanding of which is critical for future intervention trials. Airflow obstruction in uncomplicated CF persists through the preschool years despite treatment, with PsA acquisition being associated with further deterioration in lung function, even when apparently eradicated. This suggests that new therapies are needed to treat the airflow obstruction of uncomplicated CF, and rigorous strategies to prevent PsA acquisition.
Lung function, measured by forced expiration, is normal in infants with CF at the time of diagnosis by newborn screening but is diminished in older infants. These findings suggest that in CF the optimal timing of therapeutic interventions aimed at preserving lung function may be within the first 6 months of life.
We were not able to demonstrate that BTX-A as administered in this study speeds correction, reduces the need for percutaneous Achilles tenotomy, or decreases the chance of relapse after treatment when used as an adjunct to serial manipulation and casting for congenital clubfoot. It is possible that BTX-A could have a treatment effect that due to the power of our study would not have been detected by our study.
This study supports the use of plaster casting with the Ponseti technique. The use of plaster casts resulted in a statistically lower Diméglio-Bensahel score at the completion of serial casting. There was a trend toward higher patient satisfaction in the fiberglass-treated group. Whether this difference has an effect on long-term outcomes and recurrence remains to be studied.
Nonoperative correction of an idiopathic clubfoot deformity can be maintained over time in most patients. Although there was a trend showing improved results with use of the Ponseti method, the difference was not significant. In our experience, parents select the Ponseti method twice as often as they select the French functional method.
Our findings suggest that a high proportion (42%) of clinical studies in high-impact-factor orthopaedic journals involve the inappropriate use of multiple observations from single individuals, potentially biasing results. Orthopaedic researchers should attend to this issue when reporting results.
Many patients with clubfoot treated with an extensive soft-tissue release have poor long-term foot function. We found a correlation between the extent of the soft-tissue release and the degree of functional impairment. Repeated soft-tissue releases can result in a stiff, painful, and arthritic foot and significantly impaired quality of life.
Performing a TATT may not be the definitive treatment for clubfoot relapses as neuromuscular deficits may be involved. In addition, these patients may be at an increased risk of relapse due to the earlier age at which TATT was performed. When there is a high index of suspicion, prompt diagnosis with muscle biopsy is warranted.
The increase in the lateral tibiocalcaneal angle after Achilles tenotomy is essentially the same as the increase in ankle dorsiflexion seen on clinical examination. The anteroposterior and lateral talocalcaneal angles are not influenced significantly by the tenotomy. Radiographs confirmed that the additional dorsiflexion obtained from the percutaneous Achilles tenotomy is true dorsiflexion occurring in the ankle and hindfoot and not in the midfoot.
Patient noncompliance with the postoperative regimen could be suspected to have been a major cause of the failures. The high complication rate supports a reserved attitude toward plate fixation of fresh midclavicular fractures. The method should be reserved for patients who have trustworthy personal motives for quick pain relief and functional recovery.
Traditionally, good results with minimal functional deficits have been reported following nonoperative treatment of clavicular fractures. However, surgeon-based methods of evaluation may be insensitive to loss of muscle strength. We detected residual deficits in shoulder strength and endurance in this patient population, which may be related to the significant level of dysfunction detected by the patient-based outcome measures.
Early lactation success is strongly influenced by parity, but may also be affected by potentially modifiable factors such as delivery mode, duration of labor, labor medications, use of nonbreast milk fluids and/or pacifiers, and maternal overweight. All breastfeeding mother-infant pairs should be evaluated at 72 to 96 hours' postpartum.
Test weighing is an imprecise method for assessing milk intake in young infants. This is probably because infant weighing scales are not sensitive enough to pick up small changes in an infant's weight after feeding. Because of its unreliability, test weighing should not be used in clinical practice.
In children with BECTS, a high incidence of second seizure was recorded within six months of the first seizure, whereas the rate of second seizure after six months of the first one was very low. The probability of the occurrence of epileptic status in children with BECTS could be neglected. These results may be viewed as a small contribution to clarifying the dilemma of whether or not, and when to treat children with BECTS. Because of the high incidence of second seizure, we decided to treat all children with BECTS after the first seizure.
STM had marked effects on the EEG in BECTS, which led to normalization in the majority of the patients. Most of those whose EEGs were not normalized showed improvement in the grade of EEG pathology. Normalization persisted in >50% of patients during the investigation. Spontaneous normalization in the placebo group reflects the wide spectrum of individual courses, which must be considered when analyzing drug effects on EEG in BECTS.
STM was remarkably effective in preventing seizures in patients with BECTS. Patients suffering from > or = 2 seizures during the past 6 months had a high risk of early recidivism. STM was well tolerated and should be considered for children with BECTS who are in need of treatment.
As no child in the placebo group responded to the baseline PDX therapy, nor did any child in the STM group during the first 3 days of baseline therapy, PDX does not seem to be effective in WS. STM has a positive effect in the primary therapy of WS, comparable to that of vigabatrin.
We show that the symmetrical nature of the mirror image usually does not disturb SPECT interpretation. It can confirm the location of the SOZ (11 patients) and even occasionally improve the precision of its definition (nine patients) by restraining several potential SOZ-related HPAs to a single one or by permitting a restricted localization of the SOZ in a large HPA.
In our experience, pharmacological treatment seems to yield better results in cases of bilateral than unilateral cryptorchidism. hCG seems to be equally effective as LH-RH for the treatment of cryptorchidism in approximately 30% of cases; the combination of these two drugs does not seems to increase the success rate. The use of hMG alone is ineffective. We believe that hormonal treatment can lead to acceptable results in boys with cryptorchidism, without relevant adverse effects.
Treatment with LH-RH and HCG induced the descent of the testes to a normal scrotal position of boys with cryptorchidism in 59.48% of the evaluated cases. The combined treatment was effective for inducing descent of cryptorchid and gliding testes. According to the evaluated intraoperative findings, the failure of the combined therapy in 40.52% of the cases is due to the fact that the free descent is limited by local factors such as anatomical alterations of the inguinal canal, epididymal abnormalities or ectopic distal attachment of the lig. testis.
Omega-3 fatty acids did not show an effect on extending the remission in Crohn's disease. For the diet patients the question remains whether the noncompliant patients dropped out early because they sensed a relapse approaching or whether their condition deteriorated because they failed to comply with the diet.
There was no difference between 3-IP and 6-IP as adjuvant enteral nutrition on the GH/IGF-I axis. The changes observed in the GH/IGF-I axis are in line with previously published studies and may be explained by corticosteroid treatment; however, we cannot exclude an additional effect of omega3-/omega6 FA as adjuvant enteral nutrition.
Fish oil supplements are more healthful than the consumption of fish high in organochlorines. Fish oils provide the benefits of omega-3 fatty acids without the risk of toxicity. In addition, fish oil supplements have been helpful in a variety of diseases, including bipolar disorder and depression.
The newly weighted wPCDAI performed better than the original PCDAI and is more feasible. The noninvasive versions (shPCDAI and abbrPCDAI) are inferior to the full PCDAI, but when needed in retrospective studies either may be equally used.
In this population, breastfeeding rates are higher than previously reported, but lower than recommended, especially as far as exclusivity is concerned. Full implementation of the World Health Organization-UNICEF Baby Friendly Initiatives in hospitals and communities is needed to improve them further. Monitoring systems should include the collection of data on breastfeeding beyond 12 months of age.
This large-scale study of first-week feeding patterns sheds light on the important and complicated issues of breast-feeding continuation and infant weight gain, with implications for the feeding advice given to mothers. Supplementary bottle feeds were clearly associated with discontinued breast-feeding at 6 weeks. Over that period, higher weight gain was associated with more frequent feeding for breast-fed infants only.
Increased "Baby-Friendly" hospital practices, along with several other maternity-care practices, improve the chances of breastfeeding beyond 6 weeks. The need to work with hospitals to implement these practices continues to exist, as illustrated by the small proportion of mothers who reported experiencing all 6 of the "Baby-Friendly" hospital practices measured in this study.
Maternity services should address the components identified by the study findings as constituting good breastfeeding support. Guidance and information for family members and training for those involved in peer or professional initiatives should take into account women's views on what support they want, together with when and how they want it provided.
Adopting idealistic global policy goals like exclusive breast feeding until 6 months as individual goals for women is unhelpful. More achievable incremental goals are recommended. Using a proactive family-centred narrative approach to feeding care might enable pivotal points to be anticipated and resolved. More attention to the diverse values, meanings and emotions around infant feeding within families could help to reconcile health ideals with reality.
The majority of breastfeeding women experiencing persistent nipple pain were able to achieve normal milk production levels. Feeding duration and frequency were similar to those of women not experiencing pain. However, longer meal durations in the pain group were associated with lower levels of milk production. Further investigation is necessary to identify mothers most affected by maternal nipple pain.
Exclusive breastfeeding was common up to 4 but not to 6 months of age. Breastfeeding with only expressed milk was rare. Considerable variation existed in maternal report of practices that correspond to common breastfeeding advice. More research is needed to better understand how these variations relate to breastfeeding outcomes and the role of common breastfeeding advice in infant feeding decisions.
Oral acyclovir, 400 mg twice daily, is effective in suppressing herpes labialis in immunocompetent adults confirmed to have frequently recurrent infection. Treatment with acyclovir in this study resulted in a 53% reduction in the number of clinical recurrences and a 71% reduction in virus culture-positive recurrences compared with placebo therapy.
Famciclovir 250-mg or 500-mg twice daily is effective in the prevention of HSV recurrence in patients undergoing cutaneous laser resurfacing. Based on our clinical experience, a 500-mg dose is suggested for patients with a strong history of HSV, while 250-mg should be sufficient for those without prior HSV.
The results of this survey indicate current sunscreen content and labelling, and are a benchmark from which new developments can be tracked. More standard sunscreen labelling, particularly separate listing of active ingredients, would be helpful. It was surprising to find UV-absorbing chemicals in products sold for use on babies.
Annually these programmes screen approximately 1,600,000 newborns for CF and over 400 affected infants are recognised. The findings of this survey will guide the development of European evidence based guidelines and may help new regions or nations in the development and implementation of NBS for cystic fibrosis.
Mortality associated with both influenza and RSV circulation disproportionately affects elderly persons. Influenza deaths have increased substantially in the last 2 decades, in part because of aging of the population, underscoring the need for better prevention measures, including more effective vaccines and vaccination programs for elderly persons.
Pre-existing disease/comorbidity, in particular multiple pre-existing diseases and cardiac anomaly, is associated with a significantly higher risk of death from severe RSV infection. Nosocomial/hospital-acquired RSV infection is an additional major risk factor for death in children with severe RSV infection.
As an adjunct to guidelines, procalcitonin-guided therapy markedly reduces antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infections in primary care without compromising patient outcome. In practice, this could be achieved with 1 to 2 procalcitonin measurements in patients for whom the physician intends to prescribe antibiotics.
Outpatient antibiotic use in Europe measured as DID has increased since 1997, whereas seasonal variation has decreased over time. European Surveillance of Antimicrobial Consumption (ESAC) data on outpatient antibiotic use in Europe enable countries to audit their antibiotic use. Complemented by longitudinal and compositional data analyses, these data provide a tool for assessing public health strategies aimed at reducing antibiotic resistance and optimizing antibiotic prescribing.
Individuals prescribed an antibiotic in primary care for a respiratory or urinary infection develop bacterial resistance to that antibiotic. The effect is greatest in the month immediately after treatment but may persist for up to 12 months. This effect not only increases the population carriage of organisms resistant to first line antibiotics, but also creates the conditions for increased use of second line antibiotics in the community.
CRP may be of value in ruling out a diagnosis of CAP in situations where the probability of CAP >10%, typically accident and emergency departments. In primary care, additional diagnostic testing with CRP is unlikely to alter the probability of CAP sufficiently to change subsequent management decisions such as antibiotic prescribing or referral to hospital.
Most children receiving antibiotics for respiratory symptoms in general practice have an identifiable viral illness. In routine clinical practice, neither the specific infecting virus nor the use of antibiotics has a significant effect on the time course of illness. Antibiotics may reduce the duration of fever in children with influenza which could reflect an increased risk of secondary bacterial infection for such children.
Compared with patients with ARI who were not treated with antibiotics, patients who were treated with antibiotics were not at increased risk of severe adverse drug events and had a small decreased risk of pneumonia hospitalization. This small benefit from antibiotics for a common ambulatory diagnosis creates persistent tension; at the societal level, physicians are compelled to reduce antibiotic prescribing, thus minimizing future resistance, whereas at the encounter level, they are compelled to optimize the benefit-risk balance for that patient.
This study demonstrates that there is more consistent use of diagnostic labels for URTI than for acute bronchitis or other terms used to label ARI. In the future, researchers should quantify the prognostic significance of symptoms and signs in ARI and provide GPs with a more rational approach to the diagnosis and management of ARI.
Most patients with acute cough (>90%) recover within 3 weeks. A prediction rule containing four clinical items had predictive value for the risk of prolonged illness, but given its imprecision, appeared to have little clinical utility. Patients should be reassured that they are most likely to recover within three weeks and advised to re-consult if their symptoms persist beyond that period.
The degree of interobserver agreement was highly variable for different physical examination findings. The most valuable examination maneuvers in detecting pneumonia were unilateral rales and rales in the lateral decubitus position. The traditional chest physical examination is not sufficiently accurate on its own to confirm or exclude the diagnosis of pneumonia.
Our findings suggest that the interventions should be broadly acceptable to both GPs and patients, as well as feasible to roll out more widely across Europe. There are also some indications that they could help to engender changes in GP and patient attitudes that will be helpful in the longer-term, such as increased awareness of the potential disadvantages of antibiotics and increased confidence to manage LRTI without them. Given the positive effects of the booklet on patient beliefs and attitudes, it seems logical to extend the use of the patient booklet to all patients.
Use of 1% CHX is safe for neonates, well tolerated by laboring mothers, and effective in treating vaginal infections during labor. A randomized controlled trial using 1% CHX and powered for a reduction in neonatal septic mortality is justified based on these data.
Newborn skin-wiping with chlorhexidine solution once, soon after birth, reduced neonatal mortality only among low birth weight infants. Evidence from additional trials is needed to determine whether this inexpensive and simple intervention could improve survival significantly among low birth weight infants in settings where home delivery is common and hygiene practices are poor.
Chlorhexidine skin cleansing seemed safe and reduced skin flora in newborns in a dose-dependent manner 2 hours after treatment. Greater residual effect at the highest concentration (1%) might provide broader benefit and may simplify combined maternal and neonatal regimens by matching the concentration used for vaginal cleansing during labor.
Cord cleansing with 4.0% chlorhexidine immediately after birth reduces overall and organism-specific colonization of the stump. Reductions are greater and sustained longer with daily cleansing through the first week of life, suggesting that programs promoting chlorhexidine cleansing should favor multiple over single applications.
Topical chlorhexidine increased cord separation time by ∼50%. Caretakers are likely to detect this increase and might express dissatisfaction but still accept the intervention overall. When scaling up chlorhexidine cord cleansing, inclusion of appropriate messaging on expectation and nonrisks of increased cord separation time, in addition to the benefits of reduced infection and improved survival, might improve compliance.
Micronutrient deficiencies were prevalent in West Java. The micronutrient status of lactating mothers and that of their infants were closely related; breast milk was a key connecting factor for vitamin A status. Furthermore, concurrent micronutrient deficiencies appeared to be the norm.
This limited series of patients suggests that myelomeningocele can be repaired in utero with minimal morbidity to either the mother or her fetus. A larger study will be needed to substantiate this low morbidity and to determine the extent of any neurologic benefit of early surgery.
IUMR appears to substantially reduce the incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus when compared to conventional treatment even when lesion level is taken into account. Patients with lesions above L3 may not share in this benefit. IUMR cannot be justified in fetuses older than 25 weeks of gestation. Additional improvements might be obtained by further reducing the average age at which fetuses are operated upon. It remains to be determined whether this benefit outweighs the potential risks of intrauterine surgery.
In our small study, postoperative cardiac index over time was similar in patients with prophylactically administered levosimendan and patients with prophylactically given milrinone. We observed an increase in cardiac output and cardiac index over time in the levosimendan group, whereas cardiac output and cardiac index remained stable in the milrinone group. This pilot study has primarily served to obtain experience using the new drug levosimendan in neonates and infants and to initiate further multicenter trials in pediatric patients.
A loading dose of 50 microg/kg effectively increases cardiac index in children after cardiac surgery. Simulations indicate that the peak plasma concentration can be maintained by following the loading dose of 50 microg/kg with an infusion of approximately 3 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) for 30 min and then a maintenance infusion, which may require adjustment for age.
Our experience shows that ECMO support can be offered intraoperatively to any children after palliative or corrective surgery for congenital heart disease with potentially reversible pulmonary, cardiac or cardiopulmonary failure. In the majority of patients who did not survive late after weaning from ECMO support, significant myocardial dysfunction persisted or pulmonary hypertensive events. Nevertheless, an acceptable proportion of patients who were successfully weaned from ECMO ultimately survived to leave the hospital.
In patients with cardiogenic shock, emergency revascularization did not significantly reduce overall mortality at 30 days. However, after six months there was a significant survival benefit. Early revascularization should be strongly considered for patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock.
In the patients undergoing CABG surgery, both norepinephrine and low dose vasopressin were effective in restoring milrinone-induced decrease of SVR. However, only low-dose vasopressin decreased the PVR/SVR ratio that was increased by milrinone. Considering the importance of maintaining systemic perfusion pressure as well as reducing right heart afterload, milrinone-vasopressin may provide better hemodynamics than milrinone-norephinephrine during the management of right heart failure.
The PAN study recorded an overall CHD prevalence of 1.08% in Germany. The proportion of mild CHD may indicate a high diagnostic level, the prevalence of severe lesions is concordant with ranges reported by others. CHD is associated with prematurity, low birth weight and multiple births.
Milrinone did not prevent low systemic blood flow during the first 24 hours in very preterm infants, and no adverse effects were attributable to milrinone. Use of a preventative treatment with rescue model allowed comparison of an inotrope with placebo in this high-risk group of infants.
Despite recent legislation, off-label use of CV medications in the pediatric population is common. These data highlight the need for further study to determine which treatments should be used more frequently and which are unsafe or ineffective in children hospitalized with CV disease.
Increased afterload, which is not matched by an equivalent elevation in contractility, contributes to the reduced cardiac output early after pediatric cardiopulmonary bypass in this model. This increase is prevented by milrinone and levosimendan. Both agents exert additional beneficial effects on pulmonary vascular resistance and myocardial oxygen balance, although levosimendan has greater inotropic properties.
During CPR a positive test confirms placement of the ETT within the airway, whereas a negative test indicates either esophageal intubation or airway intubation with poor or absent pulmonary blood flow and requires an alternate means of confirmation of tube position. The detector may be of prognostic value for return of spontaneous circulation and short-term survival.
We provide objective and subjective data concerning the proficiency of pediatric residents in performing neonatal endotracheal intubation. None of our resident groups met the specified definition of technical competence, although there was improvement with advancing training level in bivariate analyses. However, graduates of our training program felt confident with their intubation skills in contrast to our objective findings. As exposure to these important skills becomes limited, methods to ensure attainment of technical competency during training may need to be redefined.
Substantial variations exist in neonatal resuscitation practices, some of which are not addressed in standard guidelines. Future guidelines should include recommendations regarding the use of blenders, oximeters, continuous positive airway pressure/PEEP, and plastic wrap during resuscitation.
Intubation attempts often are unsuccessful, and successful attempts frequently take >30 seconds. Greater experience is associated with greater success rates and shorter duration of successful attempts. Flow signals and ETCO2 may be useful in determining ETT position more quickly than clinical assessment alone. Infants frequently deteriorate during intubation attempts. Improved monitoring of infants who are resuscitated in the DR is desirable.
The 7-8-9 Rule appears to be an accurate clinical method for endotracheal tube placement in neonates weighing more than 750 g. When the 7-8-9 Rule is applied to infants weighing <750 g, caution is warranted. The current rule may lead to an overestimated depth of insertion and potentially result in clinically significant consequences.
The oxymetazoline and 3% NaCl solution groups seemed to be more effective in mucociliary clearance, but there was no significant difference in improvement among the groups. The improvement of acute bacterial rhinosinusitis takes more than 3 weeks, according to the mucociliary clearance values of the groups.
The atomized nasal douche demonstrated a better efficacy than traditional nasal lavages with isotonic sodium chloride solution in restoring all the physiological nasal functions. For this reason, and considering ease of use, painlessness, cheapness, and manageability of the instrument, we suggest the use of the compressor-micronizer chamber system (Rinoflow Nasal Wash & Sinus System) as a routine adjuvant to every treatment of acute rhinopathies.
Although some of the details may vary from center to center, many of the discussed principles and practices involved in instituting a VTE-prevention program are applicable to other pediatric institutions. Despite the fact that the risk of VTE in hospitalized children is much lower than that in adults, there are patients in pediatric hospitals who deserve systematic screening and thoughtful application of preventative measures.
The evidence supporting most recommendations for antithrombotic therapy in neonates and children remains weak. Studies addressing appropriate drug target ranges and monitoring requirements are urgently required in addition to site- and clinical situation-specific thrombosis management strategies.
Venous thromboembolism is rare in young critical care trauma patients, even older adolescents. The absence of published data on both the baseline risk of venous thromboembolism in pediatric critical care patients and the efficacy and safety of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis preclude the ability to make definitive recommendations for the use of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in this setting. Our results, however, suggest that venous thromboembolism prophylaxis may need to be considered only in critically injured adolescents and young adults with a continuing need for central venous access.
Heparin administration effectively reduces thrombus formation and may reduce catheter-related infections in patients who have central venous and pulmonary artery catheters in place. Cost-effectiveness comparisons of unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin, and warfarin are needed.
Despite the inherent limitations of a systematic review, our results suggest that treatment with PTB, or any cIV-AED infusion to attain EEG background suppression, may be more effective than other strategies for treating RSE. However, these interventions also were associated with an increased frequency of hypotension, and no effect on mortality was seen. A prospective randomized trial comparing different agents and titration goals for RSE with obligatory continuous EEG monitoring is needed.
Refractory status epilepticus occurs in approximately 30% of patients with SE and is associated with increased hospital length of stay and functional disability. Nonconvulsive SE and focal motor seizures at onset are risk factors for RSE. Randomized controlled trials are needed to define the optimal treatment of RSE.
Refractory status epilepticus is more prevalent in incident than in recurrent status epilepticus and is associated with higher mortality; clinical status is less likely to return to baseline than with non-RSE. Outcome was independent of the specific coma-inducing agents used and the extent of EEG burst suppression, suggesting that the underlying cause represents its main determinant.
A large number of studies include diagnostic and supportive testing data. However, these studies do not define clear indications for such testing or the impact of testing on relevant patient outcomes. Given the high prevalence of this disease, prospective studies of the utility of such testing are needed and feasible.
We observed in ventilated infants a low occurrence of concurrent bacterial pulmonary infection, but infants with positive cultures needed prolonged ventilatory support. Improvement in the diagnosis of a pulmonary bacterial infection is warranted to reduce the overuse of antimicrobial drugs among ventilated infants with RSV LRTD and to restrict these drugs to the proper patients.
While the small size of this study does not permit definitive conclusions, these data, in combination with other data from the literature, suggest that composite evidence of bacterial pneumonia in otherwise low-risk infants with RSV presenting with respiratory failure is 20% or higher and the use of empirical antibiotics for 24 to 48 hrs pending culture results may be justified and could be used until CBP is excluded.
The results of this study confirm the findings of earlier pediatric migraine biofeedback treatment studies and also provide support for the specific effect of treatments including stress management and HWB. Future studies with larger sample sizes will aid in delineating the appropriateness of HCB as a control treatment.
Operant procedures did not meet even the most lenient category (promising intervention) of the guidelines. Fiber treatment for RAP associated with constipation met the criteria for a promising intervention. Cognitive-behavioral treatment met the criteria for a probably efficacious intervention. We discuss implications and offer recommendations for future intervention research.
Findings from this study demonstrate that clean technique intermittent catheterization is a safe and cost-effective bladder management technique with male, nursing home residents, despite the frailty of this high risk population. An annual savings of approximately $1460 per patient in nursing time and catheterization supplies could be anticipated if a patient were catheterized an average of four times per day substituting clean IC technique for sterile IC technique.
Use of the hydrophilic coated catheter by patients on intermittent self-catheterization is associated with less hematuria and a significant decrease in the incidence of urinary tract infections. Therefore, it may be preferable for some patients, especially those with a history of difficult catheterization, urethral trauma or a high rate of urinary tract infection.
P6 stimulation may be beneficial for various conditions involving nausea and vomiting. The added value to modern antiemetics remains unclear. In patients on chemotherapy, future research should focus on patients for whom the problems are refractory. The next steps in research should include investigating whether acupuncture points added to P6 or individualizing treatment based on a Traditional Chinese Medicine diagnosis increases treatment effectiveness. It would also be worthwhile to identify predictors of response across the different conditions so that the individual patients can optimize acupuncture point therapy.
As microbicide development continues and the first investigational products move into efficacy trials, the needs and preferences of those women who constitute the potential users of microbicides become paramount. Providing woman-initiated microbicides that are safe, easy to use, and pleasurable will be key to the impact these products will have on the AIDS epidemic worldwide.
The ART regimens used in this study were effective in decreasing disease progression and death. However, they were associated with high rates of drug toxicities, particularly those attributable to thymidine analogue NRTI. As efforts are made to improve access to ART, treatment regimens chosen should not only be potent, but also safe.
Although a causal relationship may exist between isotretinoin and psychiatric illness in adolescents and young adults, this has not been demonstrated in the literature. Until evidence establishes a presence or lack of causality, prescribers should exercise caution when treating adolescents and young adults with isotretinoin.
The main purpose of an operating mask is to prevent bacteria falling on to the operative site from the surgeon's oropharynx or nasopharynx with the concomitant theoretical risk of infective complication. Operating masks were shown to have a significant effect on the volume of bacterial organisms falling to the operative site; however, whether this is clinically significant is unknown.
Neonatal respiratory distress is still a common cause of hospitalization in China. Illness severity assessment is important for the management. ACoRN Respiratory Score which correlated with SNAP-II score is easy to use and may be helpful in facilitating the caregivers in local hospital to identify the early signs and make the transfer decision promptly.
Prophylactic inhalation of a beta-adrenergic agonist reduces the risk of high-altitude pulmonary edema. Sodium-dependent absorption of liquid from the airways may be defective in patients who are susceptible to high-altitude pulmonary edema. These findings support the concept that sodium-driven clearance of alveolar fluid may have a pathogenic role in pulmonary edema in humans and therefore represent an appropriate target for therapy.
A regimen consisting of five doses of a five-component acellular pertussis combination vaccine is safe and immunogenic in pre-school children. Local adverse reactions are common but are less painful and activity-limiting than a regimen of five doses of a whole cell pertussis vaccine.
Simultaneous administration of the Lederle DTaP with MMR and OPV vaccines did not interfere with antibody response to pertussis antigens measured or measles, mumps, or rubella viruses and was associated with fewer local and systemic adverse events during the first 3 days following immunization when compared with the simultaneous administration of the DTwP, OPV, and MMR vaccines. We conclude that the DTaP vaccine can be administered at 15 months of age concurrently with the MMR and OPV vaccines.
With ACV-P, pertussis hospitalizations in children 4-59 months old decreased in frequency, consistent with improved vaccine effectiveness, but remained prominent among very young infants. Improved control strategies are needed to reduce infections among infants too young for pertussis vaccination.
Current vaccination strategies need to be reinforced. Expanded vaccination should include adding booster doses to existing childhood schedules (preschool or adolescent) and booster doses for those specific adult subgroups that have the highest risk of transmitting B. pertussis infection to infants (i.e., new parents, other contacts of newborns, and health care workers). More epidemiological studies and studies of disease transmission and the cost-effectiveness of vaccination would be valuable, and surveillance, diagnostic improvements, and educational campaigns are needed for implementation. However, as a prelude to universal adult vaccination, immediate universal adolescent vaccination should be instituted in countries in which it is economically feasible.
The increased incidence among 7- to 8-year-olds (ie, mainly acellular pertussis vaccine-vaccinated children) suggests waning of vaccine-induced protection from pertussis. Along with a concomitant increase in incidence among infants, most likely infected by older siblings, these data suggest a booster dose of acellular pertussis vaccine is warranted from 5 to 7 years of age.
Three doses of the two-component acellular pertussis vaccine protected infants against pertussis disease during the period before the recommended booster vaccination. For typical pertussis disease as defined by the WHO efficacy was high and similar to that of a licensed German diphtheria-tetanus toxoids-whole cell pertussis vaccine.
Under conditions of intense household exposure, primary vaccination with acellular vaccine protected against pertussis until at least the time recommended for booster vaccination. The vaccine can be expected to be equally or more effective in settings with lower infectious pressure.
A monocomponent pertussis toxoid vaccine induces significant protection against pertussis for at least 2 years after the third injection. To obtain an unbiased estimate of vaccine efficacy it is important to determine antibodies against an antigen that is not included in the vaccine.
In this pilot study, antibiotic regimens based on biofilm testing did not differ significantly from regimens based on conventional testing in terms of microbiological and clinical responses. The predictive value of biofilm testing may nonetheless warrant evaluation in an adequately powered clinical trial in younger CF patients or those experiencing acute pulmonary exacerbation.
The role of conventional antimicrobial susceptibility testing is questionable once P. aeruginosa chronically infects the cystic fibrosis lung. A range of susceptibility patterns is seen, even within a morphotype. Routine test results are not reproducible and underestimate resistance.
Meta-analytic integration confirms that the four functional somatic syndromes (IBS, NUD, FM, CFS) are related to (but not fully dependent on) depression and anxiety. At present, there is only limited meta-analytic evidence for the same sort of association for medically unexplained physical symptoms in general. In view of the relative independence from depression and anxiety, classification and treatment of these symptoms and syndromes as "common mental disorders" does not seem fully appropriate.
Based on similarities in socioeconomic background and weight at birth and 4 mo in the L(1)A(1) and L(2)N infants, the better nutrition status of the L(1)A(1) is attributed to the formulated complementary diet. The contribution of this mixture to total nutrient intake seemed substantial enough to meet the infants' nutritional requirements. The use of a cheaply available plant protein will go a long way in reducing protein-energy malnutrition among children in developing countries. However, because of the low purchasing power of the low-income family, the costs of this product should be studied.
Although it is likely that the most significant contributions to reducing health inequalities will be in improving economic and social conditions and the physical environment, there are interventions which health services, either alone or in collaboration with other agencies, can use to reduce inequalities in health.
Children are now referred at an earlier age to our tertiary encopresis clinic. The number of invasive and psychological evaluations has decreased before referral. However, treatment by many primary care providers before the referral has not changed. These data may suggest that pediatricians have increased awareness of encopresis and greater appreciation of its primarily physical rather than psychological nature. Additional studies will be needed to determine how these factors affect outcome.
This analysis estimates a higher average cost but a narrower range of costs when compared with previous estimates, reflecting the greater precision of the current analyses. The cost per outcome was high, but this analysis does not capture the full range of outcomes (e.g., social protection, educational achievement) potentially derived from school feeding.
Childhood nutritional stunting is associated with impaired fat oxidation, a factor that predicted obesity in other at-risk populations. This finding may help explain recent increases in body fatness and the prevalence of obesity among stunted adults and adolescents in developing countries.
The RNDA can be used by professionals from a range of backgrounds with high reliability and validity for determining functional status of children who are younger than 2 years. The study findings have important practical implications for early identification and intervention to mitigate neurodevelopmental impairments in large populations that live in developing countries where professional expertise is sparse.
Unthinking adherence to a hierarchy of study design as a means of selecting studies may reduce the value of evidence synthesis and reinforce an "inverse evidence law" whereby the least is known about the effects of interventions most likely to influence whole populations. Producing generalisable estimates of effect sizes is only one possible objective of evidence synthesis. Mapping the available evidence and uncertainty about effects may also be important.
Idebenone did not significantly alter neurological function in Friedreich ataxia during the 6-month study. Larger studies of longer duration may be needed to assess the therapeutic potential of drug candidates on neurological function in Friedreich ataxia. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: 
Cerebellar improvement was notable in mild patients after the first 3 months of therapy. Idebenone treatment at early stages of the disease seems to reduce the progression of cerebellar manifestations. Further blind trials with a greater number of patients and higher doses are needed to fully assess the therapeutic potential of idebenone in Friedreich's ataxia.
Cerebellar ataxia associated with CoQ deficiency in our case might be allocated in the transprenylation pathway or in the metabolic steps after condensation of 4-hydroxybenzoate and the prenyl side chain of CoQ. Clinical improvement after CoQ supplementation was remarkable, supporting the importance of an early diagnosis of this kind of disorders.
Despite progressive cerebellar degeneration, children are able to improve motor performance by intensive coordination training. Directed training of whole-body controlled video games might present a highly motivational, cost-efficient, and home-based rehabilitation strategy to train dynamic balance and interaction with dynamic environments in a large variety of young-onset neurologic conditions.
Our results indicate that longer-term idebenone treatment prevented progression of cardiomyopathy in both paediatric and adult patients, whereas its stabilizing effect on neurological dysfunction was present only in the paediatric population, mainly before puberty. This suggests that the age at which idebenone treatment is initiated may be an important factor in the effectiveness of the therapy.
Buspirone is active in cerebellar ataxia of patients with cerebellar atrophy. These results confirm the data suggested by open-label studies with buspirone. However, the effect is partial and not clinically major. These pharmacological results might be due to serotonergic mechanisms and confirm a possible link between cerebellar ataxia and the metabolism of serotonin.
This study supports the feasibility and validity of obtaining clinically important, biologically based vocal acoustic measures of depression severity and treatment response using an automated telephone system.
Intradermal administration of one fifth of the amount of yellow fever vaccine administered subcutaneously results in protective seroimmunity in all volunteers. Albeit this vaccination route should enable vaccination of five-times as many individuals at risk for disease, these results should now be confirmed in field studies in areas with potential yellow fever virus transmission to change vaccination policy.
Percutaneous treatment of fractures of the tibial plateau can be performed using arthroscopy as well as image intensification to control reduction of the joint surface. We were not able to demonstrate any significant benefit from arthroscopy compared with fluoroscopic reduction. Reduction under image intensification is technically easier in our practice, especially in serial fractures and multiply injured patients. We reserve arthroscopy for cases with significant ligament injuries and for children with fractures of the median eminence.
Use of autologous or allogenic bone graft allows better recovery of long-term flexion, possibly due to reduced inflammatory response compared with synthetic bone composites. However, all other parameters, such as maintenance of joint reduction and subjective outcome measures were comparable with the use of hydroxyapatite calcium carbonate bone graft. This study shows that synthetic bone graft may be a suitable alternative in fixation of unstable tibia plateau fractures, avoiding risk of disease transmission with allograft and donor site morbidity associated with autograft.
Sixty-five percent of consentable patients did not wish to have an external fixation frame with refurbished clamps. Our study demonstrated that this type of program is safe and effective with an actual cost savings of $65,452. The potential savings of such a program is 25% of the cost of all new frames.
Most patients with bicondylar tibial plateau fractures do well when treated with lateral locked plating. However, those with a medial coronal fracture line tend to have a higher rate of subsidence and loss of reduction when lateral locked plating is employed alone. These fractures may be better treated with dual plating if the soft tissues allow.
(1) The formation of NP is significantly correlated with increased Na+ absorption, the prolonged open time of Na+ channels is one of the most important factors. (2) IL-1 beta may upregulate Na+ permeability by prolonged open time of Na+ channels and increased conductance of Na+ channels, increased absorption of Na+ may lead to the growth and enlargement of NP.
Medial and lateral plate stabilization of comminuted bicondylar tibial plateau fractures through medial and lateral surgical approaches is a useful treatment method; however, residual dysfunction is common. Accurate articular reduction was possible in about half of our patients and was associated with better outcomes within the confines of the injury severity.
Results perhaps would have been improved by more frequent open reduction, bone grafting, and internal fixation of fractures with severely depressed articular fragments. However, the use of circular external fixation obtained results comparable with other series, and we believe it is appropriate for treatment of these complex tibial fractures, especially those with a poor soft-tissue envelope.
Our results show that 1 year of treatment can be recommended in children with benign partial epilepsy with rolandic spikes (BECT) and in children with simple partial seizures (SPS) but is clearly insufficient in children with CPS. A proper seizure classification is one important tool, although not sufficient, in offering recommendations concerning the duration of treatment in children with idiopathic epilepsy.
After 1 year of treatment, our prognostic model identified children in whom treatment could be withdrawn at that time. Our model should be easily applicable in clinical practices and may be of clinical importance in determining the duration of treatment in children with uncomplicated epilepsy.
Children with chronic renal failure consume less calories than their age matched peers, but the majority of these children appear to ingest adequate amounts for their body mass. This reduction in caloric intake occurs early in renal insufficiency. They also ingest inadequate amounts of calcium, zinc, vitamin B6, and folate.
Vitamin D deficiency should be routinely detected and treated. Our results show that the administration of ergocalciferol in conjunction with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 reduced the dose of ESA required to treat children with CKD stages 5 and 5D and may decrease erythropoietin resistance.
Pamidronate appears to be effective in preventing SIO in children with nephropathy requiring long-term steroid therapy. Further long-term follow-up studies regarding the efficacy and side effects appear to be necessary to set a more solid basis for such pediatric uses of bisphosphonates such as pamidronate.
Although no single biochemical marker is able to provide a complete assessment of renal osteodystrophy, a combination of serum calcium, alkaline phosphatase, and PTH levels may lead to a more precise noninvasive assessment of turnover and mineralization abnormalities in this population.
Using height-adjusted left ventricular mass index reference data, LVH is highly prevalent but less common than previously diagnosed in children on PD. Renal hypo/dysplasia is protective from LVH, likely because of lower BP and polyuria. Hypertension, fluid overload, and hyperparathyroidism are modifiable determinants of LVH.
Compared with calcium-based phosphate binders, use of sevelamer in dialysis patients is associated with similar to slightly higher phosphate levels, similar calcium phosphate product, and slightly lower serum calcium levels. There was no evidence that sevelamer reduced all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, the frequency of symptomatic bone disease or health-related quality of life.
Children with biliary atresia have a high risk of portal hypertension in the first years of life. Spontaneous regression of varices is rare. Children with a combination of esophageal varices and red markings and/or gastric varices along the cardia should receive primary prophylaxis of bleeding.
A high rate of bleeding control was achieved with octreotide during acute gastrointestinal bleeding in children with portal hypertension. However, controlled studies are needed for more definitive description of its clinical effects. The role of octreotide is less clear in gastrointestinal bleeding unrelated to portal hypertension.
Pediatric gastroenterologists vary in the care they provide for children at risk for esophageal varices and their attitudes toward the role of screening endoscopy differ from that of their patients. Further evidence is required to support practice guidelines that may reduce variation in care and thus improve its quality.
In children with cirrhotic and noncirrhotic portal hypertension, PS reduces the overall incidence of bleeding from esophageal varices that were eradicated in 94% of cases. The source of bleeding has been different in each group, being predominantly from esophageal varices in the control group and from the stomach in the prophylaxis group. When applied with appropriate technique, PS is a safe procedure with a low incidence of minor complications. PS does not change the incidence of gastric varices but increases the development of congestive hypertensive gastropathy. PS increases the risk of bleeding from the naturally formed gastric varices and from congestive hypertensive gastropathy. PS does not affect survival rate.
Rates of remission in the placebo arm of UC clinical trials ranges from 0% to 40%. The placebo remission rates are influenced by the trial length, number of study visits, use of stricter remission definitions, and design features that enroll patients with more active disease. These factors should be considered when designing future placebo-controlled clinical trials in patients with active UC.
In hemodialysis patients, niacinamide effectively reduces serum phosphorus when co-administered with binders and results in a potentially advantageous increase in HDL cholesterol. Further study in larger randomized trials and other chronic kidney disease populations is indicated.
In summary, this study demonstrates that the source of protein has a significant effect on phosphorus homeostasis in patients with CKD. Therefore, dietary counseling of patients with CKD must include information on not only the amount of phosphate but also the source of protein from which the phosphate derives.
Psal concentration is approximately 4-5 times that of serum P and is not related to glomerular filtration rate. Chitosan chewing gum resulted in a reduction of serum P by approximately 0.05-0.065 mmol/l but had no effect on Psal concentration.
Among patients with moderate renal insufficiency, the slower decline in renal function that started four months after the introduction of a low-protein diet suggests a small benefit of this dietary intervention. Among patients with more severe renal insufficiency, a very-low-protein diet, as compared with a low-protein diet, did not significantly slow the progression of renal disease.
Our results provide important information about mineral metabolism trends in hemodialysis patients in 12 countries during a decade. The risk categories identified in the DOPPS cohort may be relevant to efforts at international harmonization of existing clinical guidelines for mineral metabolism.
Cognitive behavior therapy was significantly more effective than nutritional counseling in improving outcome and preventing relapse. To the authors' knowledge, these data provide the first empirical documentation of the efficacy of any psychotherapy, and cognitive behavior therapy in particular, in posthospitalization care and relapse prevention of adult anorexia nervosa.
Adults with anorexia nervosa are a difficult to treat group. The imbalance between groups in partner relationships may explain differences in service utilisation favouring SSCM. This study confirms SSCM as a useful treatment for out-patients with anorexia nervosa. The novel treatment, MANTRA, designed for this patient group may need adaptations to fully exploit its potential.
The effect of BTX injections for gustatory sweating obtained in this case was comparable to results reported using higher doses. Low doses of BTX can therefore be used in the treatment of Frey's syndrome, but studies to clarify the dose-response relationship, in terms of both time-course and obtained effect, are needed.
Botulinum toxin A significantly improved patients' functional quality of life, without significant improvement in their social or emotional quality of life, according to our questionnaire results. The duration of the effect was longer than the reported physiological effect of botulinum toxin A on acetylcholine receptors.
The present series demonstrated a linear regression in the effectiveness of the intracutaneous injection of botulinum toxin type A in patients with gustatory sweating, while no factors appeared to be statistically related to the duration of effectiveness and/or the incidence of recurrent gustatory sweating. However, because the severity of recurrent gustatory sweating is reduced when compared with the severity of the initial gustatory sweating and because recurrent gustatory sweating remains amenable to reinjection of botulinum toxin type A, we believe that the intracutaneous injection of botulinum toxin type A should become the first-line treatment option in patients with gustatory sweating.
This disorder is important for ENT surgeons and allied specialties. We present the main surgical and cosmetic therapeutic strategies in the literature. We also discuss the fascinating life of Lucja Frey. As one of the first female academic neurologists in Europe, her career and life were tragically altered by the events of World War II.
Dexamethasone does not improve the outcome in all adolescents and adults with suspected bacterial meningitis; a beneficial effect appears to be confined to patients with microbiologically proven disease, including those who have received prior treatment with antibiotics. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN42986828 [controlled-trials.com] .).
Adjuvant therapy with dexamethasone for bacterial meningitis in adults from an area with a high prevalence of HIV did not reduce mortality or morbidity. In this setting, intramuscular administration was not inferior to intravenous administration of ceftriaxone for bacterial meningitis. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN31371499 [controlled-trials.com].).
The combination of vasospasm in the ACA distribution and lower extremity weakness associated with cognitive and affective impairment that resolves with time is common in patients with ACoA aneurysms. We propose that this constellation of clinical, radiographic, and pathologic findings be referred to as the "ACoA aneurysm paraparesis syndrome."
Because excretion of the cerebrospinal fluid is inversely associated with plasma osmolality, we suggest that the glycerol-induced osmolality increase reduce the volume of cerebrospinal fluid, enhanced water movement back to the plasma by osmosis, increased cerebral blood flow, and thus, improved brain oxygenation.
Patients treated with dexamethasone were more likely to have a favourable outcome, although statistical significance was not reached. Several parameters included in the Dutch risk score were also negative predictors in our cohort, although the entire risk score could not be validated due to a lack of data.
Dexamethasone therapy has been implemented on a large scale as adjunctive treatment of adults with pneumococcal meningitis in the Netherlands. The prognosis of pneumococcal meningitis on a national level has substantially improved after the introduction of adjunctive dexamethasone therapy.
The rate of unfavorable outcome among adults with listerial meningitis has increased over a 14-year period, from 27% to 61%. The emerging L. monocytogenes genotype ST6 was identified as the main factor leading to poorer prognosis. Adjunctive dexamethasone may be discontinued if L. monocytogenes is identified, as there is no proven benefit in Listeria meningitis.
The available evidence on adjunctive dexamethasone therapy confirms benefit for H influenzae type b meningitis and, if commenced with or before parenteral antibiotics, suggests benefit for pneumococcal meningitis in childhood. Limiting dexamethasone therapy to 2 days may be optimal.
Mortality from bacterial meningitis in Malawian children is much higher than in British children, even when infected with the same organisms. This might be owing to delay in presentation, malnutrition and HIV infection. Immunisation of Malawian children with conjugate vaccines should continue to develop since their risk of dying from meningitis is five times greater than that of British children.
Appropriate concentrations of vancomycin in CSF may be obtained even when concomitant steroids are used. Dexamethasone can, therefore, be used without fear of impeding vancomycin penetration into the CSF of patients with pneumococcal meningitis, provided that vancomycin dosage is adequate. This study is registered at http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov/ (registration number 
In adults presenting with community-acquired acute bacterial meningitis, the sensitivity of the classic triad of fever, neck stiffness, and altered mental status is low, but almost all present with at least two of the four symptoms of headache, fever, neck stiffness, and altered mental status. The mortality associated with bacterial meningitis remains high, and the strongest risk factors for an unfavorable outcome are those that are indicative of systemic compromise, a low level of consciousness, and infection with S. pneumoniae.
Several factors predicted subsequent MH. Education as predictor may implicate the importance of coping, compliance, or lifestyle. MH after 1 year of treatment is predictive of reduced subsequent disease activity and decreased need for active treatment. The present results give further strength to the use of mucosal healing as a clinical indicator and treatment goal in inflammatory bowel disease.
About half of patients with UC will be in remission at any time, although 90% have an intermittent course. Relapses are unpredictable except that disease activity in foregoing years indicates with 70%-80% probability that the disease will continue the following year. Although UC is troublesome, most patients' lives are relatively little influenced by it.
Macroscopic colonoscopic features help predict neoplasia risk in UC. Features of previous/ongoing inflammation signify an increased risk. A macroscopically normal looking colonoscopy returns the cancer risk to that of the general population: it should be possible to reduce surveillance frequency to five years in this cohort.
Although both infliximab and etanercept showed powerful TNF-alpha neutralization, only infliximab was able to bind to PBL and lamina propria T cells and subsequently to induce apoptosis of activated lymphocytes. These data may provide a biological basis for the difference in efficacy of the 2 TNF-alpha-neutralizing drugs.
Bone mineralization at hospital discharge and expected term was significantly higher in preterm infants fed the isocaloric, nutrient-enriched formula than in those fed control formula. Continuation of the experimental formula beyond hospital discharge, through expected term, further improved bone mineralization.
1) Improving postdischarge nutrition in the first 9 months may "reset" subsequent growth-at least until 18 months for body length. We intend to follow-up the children at older ages. The observed efficacy of PDF was not associated with adverse safety outcomes. 2) We cannot reject the hypothesis that postdischarge nutrition benefits motor development and this requires additional study. 3) Our data raise the possibility that breastfed postdischarge preterm infants may require nutritional supplementation, currently under investigation.
RT with P/F is shorter than with K/M. P/F is comparable to K/M in reducing procedural distress associated with painful orthopedic procedures in the pediatric emergency department. Although propofol has a greater potential of respiratory depression and airway obstruction as compared with ketamine, it offers some unique advantages including a quicker offset and smoother recovery profile.
This study detected a higher rate of subclinical respiratory depression in patients in the ketamine group than the propofol group. There was no difference in the rate of clinical interventions related to respiratory depression, pain, or recall of the procedure between the groups. Recovery agitation was seen more frequently in patients receiving ketamine than in those receiving propofol. The time to regain baseline mental status was longer in the ketamine group than the propofol group. This study suggests that the use of either ketamine or propofol is safe and effective for procedural sedation in the ED.
Propofol appears to be as effective as midazolam/fentanyl for reduction of anterior shoulder dislocation using the modified Kocher's maneuver. However, the advantage of shorter wakening times associated with propofol should be weighed against the possibility of adverse events, particularly respiratory depression and vomiting.
The use of supplemental alfentanil with propofol for procedural sedation did not result in a difference in reported pain or recall immediately after the procedure. There was an increase in the proportion of patients who required stimulation to induce respiration during the procedure in patients who received propofol with supplemental alfentanil. The addition of supplemental opioid to procedural sedation with propofol does not appear beneficial.
During SSC with their mothers, low-birth-weight infants maintain a higher oxygen saturation and are less likely to have desaturation to less than 90% oxygen than are infants exposed to SC. Mothers in the SSC group are more likely to continue breast-feeding until 1 month after discharge.
These results show that KMC is a safe approach to the care of clinically stable LBW infants. Our findings provide the necessary scientific support to a method that is already incorporated in the care of LBW infants at many hospitals around the world and at different levels of care.
In spite of major baseline differences between studied cohorts, the survival of LBW infants in Bogotá is similar between the KMI and the "traditional care". Questions remain about quality of life, especially regarding weight gain and neurodevelopment, that may be answered by a Randomized Controlled Trial.
These inconclusive results call for additional studies with larger doses of skin-to-skin contact, larger sample sizes, and other outcome measures of mother-late preterm infant interactions. Such measures include the Parent-Child Early Relational Assessment and behavioral coding during play.
KC had a significant positive impact on the infant's perceptual-cognitive and motor development and on the parenting process. We speculate that KC has both a direct impact on infant development by contributing to neurophysiological organization and an indirect effect by improving parental mood, perceptions, and interactive behavior.
The extensive missing birth weight and its potential bias render the evidence insufficient to justify implementing community-based kangaroo mother care. Additional experimental research ensuring baseline comparability of mortality, adequate kangaroo mother care implementation, and birth weight assessment is necessary to clarify the effect of community-based kangaroo mother care on survival.
We present the first prevalence estimates of both ADHD and CD globally and for all world regions. Data were sparse with large parts of the world having no estimates of either disorder. Epidemiological studies are urgently needed in certain parts of the world. Our findings directly informed burden quantification for GBD 2010. As mental disorders gained increased recognition after the first GBD study in 1990, the inclusion of ADHD and CD in GBD 2010 ensures their importance will be recognized alongside other childhood disorders.
Large-scale epidemiological studies have the potential to provide considerable information about the mental health of children and adolescents. However, having a clear set of aims, ensuring that the scope of the study remains within manageable proportions and paying careful attention to the details of fieldwork are essential to ensure that high-quality data is obtained in such studies.
Schools seeking prevention programs may choose from a range of effective programs with some confidence that whatever they pick will be effective. Without the researcher involvement that characterizes the great majority of programs in this meta-analysis, schools might be well-advised to give priority to those that will be easiest to implement well in their settings.
Closure with a subcuticular technique achieves better outcomes than the use of skin clips. When factoring in the increased cost incurred by using clips, as well as other intangible factors such as surgical skill acquisition, subcuticular suture closure appears to be a favourable method of wound closure in CABG patients compared with the use of skin stapling techniques.
In the 1990s, patients who develop SSI have longer and costlier hospitalizations than patients who do not develop such infections. They are twice as likely to die, 60% more likely to spend time in an ICU, and more than five times more likely to be readmitted to the hospital. Programs that reduce the incidence of SSI can substantially decrease morbidity and mortality and reduce the economic burden for patients and hospitals.
Zinc supplementation reduced significantly the frequency and severity of diarrhea and respiratory illnesses and the duration of diarrheal morbidity. The relatively limited reduction in morbidity and the presence of significant heterogeneity and of publication bias indicate the need for larger, high-quality studies to identify subpopulations most likely to benefit.
Coadministration of ipratropium bromide and repeat doses of nebulized salbutamol produced a small beneficial clinical effect compared with administration of nebulized salbutamol alone. This beneficial effect was related to a decrease in the hospitalization rate, particularly in patients with severe asthma attacks.
Despite the previously demonstrated effects of heliox on improved aerosol particle delivery into the distal airways, heliox-powered nebulized albuterol therapy for children admitted to the hospital with moderate to severe status asthmaticus does not shorten hospital length of stay or hasten rates of clinical improvement when compared with air/oxygen-powered nebulized albuterol.
No outcome measures demonstrated statistical significance. Outcome measures revealed a trend toward improvement in the terbutaline group. Before recommending routine use of intravenous terbutaline for acute severe asthma, further study to determine safety and efficacy is necessary.
The addition of an inhaled corticosteroid--but not an inhaled anticholinergic agent--to maintenance treatment with a beta 2-agonist (terbutaline) substantially reduced morbidity, hyperresponsiveness, and airways obstruction in patients with a spectrum of obstructive airways disease.
Bronchodilator responses decrease substantially with inhaled corticosteroid therapy, and within subject variability is considerable both in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Dichotomous decisions on whether patients are "irreversible" according to any single bronchodilator measurement should therefore be made with great caution. The bronchodilator response cannot be used accurately as a predictor of response to inhaled corticosteroids in obstructive airways disease.
In patients with moderately severe obstructive airways disease, PEF rates and variation are greatly improved by inhaled corticosteroids. Since the relation of diurnal PEF variation with PC20, symptoms, FEV1, and bronchodilator response were all weak, these markers of disease severity may all provide different information on the actual disease state. PEF measurements should be used in addition to the other markers but not instead of them.
Admissions to hospital for asthma decreased, as did attendance at the Children's Emergency Department. Prescriptions for asthma medication changed in the direction anticipated with compliance with the asthma clinical pathway. However, we found no evidence within the study that implementation of the asthma clinical pathway by general practitioners resulted in lower morbidity than those general practitioners who did not implement the pathway. Possible explanations are that these general practitioners were already providing care according to the recommendations of the pathway, or that there was contamination of the control group by the intervention, or that the guidelines, although based on currently accepted recommendations, are ineffective.
Regular twice daily eformoterol dry powder may produce bronchodilator subsensitivity in terms of both peak and duration of response to cumulative repeated doses of eformoterol. Systemic beta 2-mediated adverse effects also showed tolerance, which was mirrored by downregulation of lymphocyte beta 2 adrenoceptors.
This study suggests that, in severe childhood asthma, there is no significant difference in the effectiveness of a bolus of salbutamol and an aminophylline infusion in the first 2 hours of treatment. Overall, the aminophylline infusion was superior as it significantly reduced the length of stay in hospital.
Single dose nebulised Formoterol Fumarate (dry powder) in sterile saline solution, as depicted in this trial, is equivalent to three doses of Albuterol every twenty minutes for one hour in acute asthma in children, simplifying acute care management and at one fifth of medication costs. A pursuit of simpler and more cost effective approaches is found wanting in developing nations with depressed economies and unique cultural and socio-medical contexts; also, in countries where pharmaco-economics orients quality of health policies, novel approaches like this are worth exploring.
Outpatient treatment with a short course of systemic corticosteroids combined with ICSs is adequate for most patients with asthma discharged from the emergency department; those already receiving ICS agents may benefit from ICS/LABA combination therapy to improve quality of life. Larger studies are needed to confirm the role of inhaled LABAs in acute asthma.
For acute asthma, albuterol MDI with a holding chamber can be given optimally at 60-min intervals with minimal adverse effects for the majority of patients. However, patients who initially demonstrate a low or poor bronchodilator response to albuterol should be given subsequent treatments at 30-min intervals. This will optimize care and conserve resources for patients who will benefit the most.
Early treatment of acute asthma symptoms with OCSs in children with a pattern of recurrent acute asthma may decrease the severity of acute asthma episodes and reduce the likelihood of subsequent relapses. Attention should be given to identifying these children and standardizing a treatment approach based on accepted, consistent definitions of what constitutes an asthma exacerbation and recurrence. A suggested protocol is described.
Newborn infants treated in the intensive care unit had a high frequency of stress-induced gastric hemorrhage with gastric lesions similar to adults and children treated in intensive care. Mechanical ventilation is the main risk factor. Also mode of delivery and hypotension after birth increase the risk of stress-induced gastric lesions. These infants should be the target for prophylactic gastroprotective treatment.
UGIB in the newborn babies is often associated with clinically relevant mucosal lesions of the upper GI tract. The evolution, after treatment with antisecretory drugs, is generally rapid and favorable, with clinical recovery usually obtained within 24-48 h. The higher serum pepsinogen levels may only represent a significant risk factor of mucosal lesions and complications.
To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine the relationship between chloral hydrate exposure and cancer risk in humans. There was no persuasive evidence to support a causal relationship between chloral hydrate exposure in humans and the development of cancer. However, statistical power was low for weak associations, particularly for some of the individual cancer sites. Although animal data using much higher doses of chloral hydrate have demonstrated its genotoxicity and carcinogenicity, the effects of chloral hydrate in humans are still uncertain.
The administration of pentoxifylline to septic patients results in a significant improvement in hemodynamic performance compared with critically ill nonseptic patients. The better hemodynamic state is accompanied by an increase in DO2 and VO2 with unchanged oxygen extraction ratio.
The severity of NEC and its systemic signs and symptoms are not due to a deficiency of counterregulatory cytokines. In fact, mean concentrations of IL-1ra in NEC are higher than what has been reported in other populations. The cytokines IL-8, IL-1ra, and IL-10 are released later or more slowly after a stimulus and may be more useful in identifying, within hours of symptom onset, which infant will develop significant NEC.
E. coli bacteremia led to preglomerular vasoconstriction and hypoperfusion. Inhibition of lipid peroxidation with the radical scavenger U74389G reduced this effect without altering central hemodynamic responses. Free radicals have a deleterious effect on the renal microcirculation during bacteremia, and these data suggest that antioxidants may be of value in preventing sepsis-associated kidney failure.
This exercise highlights the lack of reliable cause-of-death data in the settings in which most neonatal deaths occur. Complex statistical models are not a panacea. Representative data with comparable case definitions and consistent hierarchical cause-of-death attribution are required.
This large cohort study suggests that neonatal infections among ELBW infants are associated with poor neurodevelopmental and growth outcomes in early childhood. Additional studies are needed to elucidate the pathogenesis of brain injury in infants with infection so that novel interventions to improve these outcomes can be explored.
Pentoxifylline is able to decrease serum TNF but not IL-6 or IL-8 serum concentrations during septic shock. Pentoxifylline was well tolerated by all eight patients with no adverse effect. Further studies are needed to determine if pentoxifylline's ability to lower circulating TNF concentration without altering hemodynamics will improve outcome in septic shock.
These data suggest a potential reduction in subsequent infant allergy after maternal PUFA supplementation. More detailed follow-up studies are required in larger cohorts to establish the robustness of these findings and to ascertain their significance in relation to longer-term modification of allergic disease in children.
This study provides preliminary evidence that increasing neonatal n-3 PUFA levels with maternal dietary supplementation can achieve subtle modification of neonatal cytokine levels. Further assessment of immune function and clinical follow-up of these infants will help determine if there are any significant effects on postnatal immune development and expression of allergic disease.
DHA supplementation for infants of <33 weeks' gestation reduced the incidence of BPD in boys and in all infants with a birth weight of <1250 g and reduced the incidence of reported hay fever in boys at either 12 or 18 months.
Feeding preterm infants milk containing 3 times the standard amount of DHA did not result in any clinically meaningful change to language development or behavior when assessed in early childhood. Whether longer-term effects of dietary DHA supplementation can be detected remains to be assessed. This trial was registered with the Australia and New Zealand Clinical Trial Registry at www.anzctr.org.au as 12606000327583.
Overall, n-3 LCPUFA supplementation during pregnancy did not significantly reduce IgE-associated allergic disease in the first 3 years of life. Further studies should examine whether the nonsignificant reductions in IgE-associated allergies are of clinical and public health significance.
DHA supplementation in women with singleton pregnancies does not enhance infant visual acuity in infants at 4 mo of age. Visual acuity in infancy is adversely associated with maternal smoking in pregnancy. This trial was registered at www.anzctr.org.au as ACTRN12606000327583. The DOMInO trial was registered at www.anzctr.org.au as ACTRN12605000569606.
Fish oil was metabolized to the eicosapentaenoic acid-derived eicosanoids thromboxane A3 and prostacyclin I3 in pregnant women. Correspondingly, analog products of arachidonic acid tended to be depressed. It remains to be established whether these biochemical effects will prove beneficial in the prevention or treatment of preeclampsia and intrauterine growth retardation.
Our results indicate that maternal supplementation with ω-3 PUFA during pregnancy may modulate global methylation levels and the Th1/Th2 balance in infants. Therefore, the epigenetic mechanisms could provide attractive targets for prenatal modulation and prevention of inflammatory disorders and potentially other related diseases in childhood and adulthood.
A supplement of 600 mg DHA/d in the last half of gestation resulted in overall greater gestation duration and infant size. A reduction in early preterm and very-low birth weight could be important clinical and public health outcomes of DHA supplementation. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
We showed no evidence that supplementation with n-3 fatty acids and instructions to reduce arachidonic acid intake during pregnancy and lactation relevantly affects fat mass in offspring during the first year of life. Prospective long-term studies are needed to explore the efficacy of this dietary approach for primary prevention. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
This study shows neither harmful nor beneficial effects of maternal supplementation of long-chain n-3 PUFAs regarding pregnancy outcome, cognitive development, or growth, as compared with supplementation with n-6 fatty acids. However, it confirms that DHA concentration may be related to gestational length and cerebral maturation of the newborn.
Male sex, parental atopy, and maternal smoking during pregnancy are risk factors for asthma in young children. Children born in winter exhibit a greater prevalence of sensitisation to cats and house dust mites. These data suggest possible areas for intervention in children at risk because of parental atopy.
The best results were obtained with the use of oral glucose, being statistically significant with only one of the scales. The administration of paracetamol or EMLA did not reduce pain. Other complementary and/or combined methods, added to oral glucose, should be considered daily to diminish this painful experience in thousands of children.
This ecological analysis identified country-level correlations between indicators of prenatal and perinatal paracetamol exposure and autism/ASD. State level correlation was also identified for the indicator of perinatal paracetamol exposure and autism/ASD. Like all ecological analyses, these data cannot provide strong evidence of causality. However, biologic plausibility is provided by a growing body of experimental and clinical evidence linking paracetamol metabolism to pathways shown to be important in autism and related developmental abnormalities. Taken together, these ecological findings and mechanistic evidence suggest the need for formal study of the role of paracetamol in autism.
Analgesic use for the management of postoperative pain in neonates having undergone cardiac and major surgery is frequent but continues to be infrequent in the postoperative care of patients having undergone minor surgery in some NICUs. Procedural and disease-related pain is frequently untreated or undertreated. Guidelines for establishing a protocol to manage pain in NICUs are given.
The mean number of painful procedures per NICU patient per day declined. Nonpharmacological pain- or stress-reducing strategies like NIDCAP and sucrose were fully embedded in our pain management. As further reduction of the number of painful procedures is unlikely, we should apply more nonpharmacological interventions and explore newer pharmacological agents.
HTS can safely be used in humans they obtain a reduction of ICP without reducing CVP, serum osmolality and Na+ serum values. Our data underline the possibility of their use as an alternative to mannitol in the treatment of patients scheduled for intracranial surgery, especially when multiple doses are needed.
A single dose of hypertonic isoncotic saline solution [7.2% NaCl/6% HES (200/0.5)] and mannitol (20%) with equivalent osmolar loads were effective and safe in producing cerebral relaxation during elective neurosurgical procedures under general anesthesia.
These positive effects of probiotic supplements provide evidence for the beneficial effects of daily supplementation with these probiotic strains in highly trained rugby union players.
Consumption of GG reduced the occurrence of respiratory illness in children attending day care centers in the completed cases subgroup, but not in the total population. Thus, future clinical trials are warranted to clarify the association between fecal recovery of a probiotic and the symptom prevalence.
Patients with systematic dental enamel defects should be screened for CD even in the absence of gastrointestinal symptoms. CD screening tests for patients with oral aphthae or idiopathic atrophic glossitis should be selectively considered during a medical evaluation that focuses on all aspects of the patient's status.
The results demonstrate that dietary consumption of B. lactis HN019 can enhance natural immunity in healthy elderly subjects, and that a relatively short-term dietary regime (6 weeks) is sufficient to impart measurable improvements in immunity that may offer significant health benefits to consumers.
The meta-analysis suggests that probiotics can be used to prevent antibiotic associated diarrhoea and that S boulardii and lactobacilli have the potential to be used in this situation. The efficacy of probiotics in treating antibiotic associated diarrhoea remains to be proved. A further large trial in which probiotics are used as preventive agents should look at the costs of and need for routine use of these agents.
Guidelines for the management of AECB, AOM, and ABRS emphasize the importance of differentiating between bacterial and nonbacterial infections, choosing an antibiotic based on the likelihood of infection with resistant pathogens, and providing coverage against the predominant pathogens. The judicious use of antibiotics also has been identified as an instrumental part of controlling unnecessary antibiotic use and subsequent resistance.
The limited evidence suggests that probiotics show no beneficial effect in patients who are mechanically ventilated; thus, probiotics should not be recommended for routine clinical application. However, the results of this meta-analysis should be interpreted with caution because of the heterogeneity among study designs. Future studies should focus on the safety of probiotics.
High-intensity training impaired CD8(+)TL mobilization and egress in response to exercise. Highly cytotoxic CD8(+)TLs were primarily responsible for the reduced mobilization of CD8(+)TLs, which occurred in parallel with smaller neuroendocrine responses. The reduced capacity for CD8(+)TLs to leave blood after exercise with high-intensity training was accounted for primarily by naive, and also, highly cytotoxic CD8(+)TLs. This impaired CD8(+)TL redistribution in athletes undertaking intensified training may imply reduced immune surveillance.
Supplementation with 30 mg elemental Zn during the last 2 trimesters of pregnancy did not improve birth outcome in Bangladeshi urban poor. These results indicate that interventions with zinc supplementation alone are unlikely to reduce the incidence of low birth weight in Bangladesh.
Prenatal vitamin A supplementation had a small but significant effect on postnatal growth of children's length until 18 months of age compared with supplementation with either vitamin A + Zn or Zn alone, but not compared with placebo. It had no effects on other anthropometric measures and did not reduce the prevalence of growth faltering. Future studies should duplicate these findings before recommendations can be made.
Zinc supplementation during pregnancy improved the vitamin A status of mothers and infants postpartum, which indicates a specific role of zinc in vitamin A metabolism. Addition of both beta-carotene and zinc to iron supplements during pregnancy could be effective in improving the vitamin A status of mothers and infants.
This study shows that maternal supplementation with zinc and β-carotene affected the newborn's immune development in specific ways, but only maternal zinc supplementation significantly affected morbidity in the infants. Addition of zinc to routine iron and folic acid supplements for pregnant women could be an effective way to reduce diarrhoeal disease during the first 6 months of life, albeit at the expense of more episodes of cough.
Maternal micronutrient supplementation failed to reduce overall fetal loss or early infant mortality. Among preterm infants, FA alone or with iron reduced mortality in the first 3 mo of life. MNs may increase mortality risk among term infants, but this effect needs further evaluation.
The observed positive effect of prenatal zinc on fetal femur diaphysis length is consistent with the results of experimental studies in animals and in vitro. The supplementation effect represents an upward shift in mean femur diaphysis length at term of about one-quarter of the reference SD. These findings suggest the potential importance of maternal zinc status for fetal bone growth in humans and illustrate the value of ultrasonography for evaluating the effect of prenatal nutritional interventions on components of fetal growth.
Zinc supplementation of women in the latter half of pregnancy had no effect on the neurologic development of their children at age 5 y. It is not known whether our findings of no positive effect in the population with apparently inadequate zinc nutriture can be readily extrapolated to other populations.
Zinc supplementation to HIV-infected pregnant women offers no benefits on viral load or MTCT. The clinical relevance of an apparent decrease in MUAC associated with zinc supplementation is yet to be ascertained. These findings together with the lack of effect on fetal outcomes (reported previously) do not provide support for the addition of zinc supplements to the standard of prenatal care among HIV-infected women.
Early limited formula may reduce longer-term formula use at 1 week and increase breastfeeding at 3 months for some infants. ELF may be a successful temporary coping strategy for mothers to support breastfeeding newborns with early weight loss. ELF has the potential for increasing rates of longer-term breastfeeding without supplementation based on findings from this RCT.
In a high-income country, adding a small amount of complementary food in addition to breast milk to infants' diets from 4 months of age does not affect growth rate between 4 and 6 months, but has a small and positive effect on iron status at 6 months. The biological importance of this finding remains to be determined.
The new guidelines showed efficacy with higher red meat intake and positive effects on hemoglobin and hematocrit. The intervention was acceptable and affordable for most mothers. These preliminary results suggest that the intervention merits investigation in a larger cohort with longer-term follow-up. This trial was registered at http://isrctn.org as ISRCTN57733004.
Most healthcare workers (medical and non-medical) routinely and unnecessarily give prelacteal feeds. Therefore training and retraining programmes in lactation management are necessary and must include non-medical staff. These programmes, while emphasizing the danger of giving prelacteal feeds, must deal with the misconceptions of each group. Deliberate efforts have to be made to incorporate clinical training in breastfeeding in curricula of Schools of Medicine and Nursing.
  The number of factors associated with in-hospital formula supplementation suggests that this practice is complex. Some results, however, point to an opportunity for intervention, with the BFHI appearing to be an effective strategy for supporting exclusive breastfeeding.
This nationally representative study documents increased risk of respiratory tract infection including pneumonia and recurrent OM in children who were fully breastfed for 4 vs 6 months. These findings support current recommendations that infants receive only breast milk for the first 6 months of life.
Breastfeeding is associated with a reduction in risk for postneonatal death. This large data set allowed robust estimates and control of confounding, but the effects of breast milk and breastfeeding cannot be separated completely from other characteristics of the mother and child. Assuming causality, however, promoting breastfeeding has the potential to save or delay approximately 720 postneonatal deaths in the United States each year.
In poor populations, when breast-feeding is exclusive for the first 4 to 6 months, continues from 6 to 12 months, and is accompanied by generally adequate complementary foods, faltering in weight does not occur before 9 months among infants born with birth weights of more than 2500 g.
Health care personnel and parents need to be aware that introduction of solids and introduction of formula can have very different consequences for breastfeeding. If the aim is to introduce other foods to breastfed infants under the protection of breast milk, it is important to realize that formula is also another food and needs to be treated as such.
Policy goals both in the UK and internationally support exclusive breast-feeding until 6 months of age. The evidence base to enable women to continue to breast-feed needs to be strengthened to include robust evaluations of policies and practices related to breast-feeding; a step change is needed in the quality and quantity of research funded.
Breastfeeding concerns are highly prevalent and associated with stopping breastfeeding. Priority should be given to developing strategies for lowering the overall occurrence of breastfeeding concerns and resolving, in particular, infant feeding and milk quantity concerns occurring within the first 14 days postpartum.
The probability of respiratory illness occurring at any time during childhood is significantly reduced if the child is fed exclusively breast milk for 15 weeks and no solid foods are introduced during this time. Breast feeding and the late introduction of solids may have a beneficial effect on childhood health and subsequent adult disease.
We found a correlation between socioeconomic status and the risk for shigellosis. To reduce shigellosis in this setting, we recommend interventions focused on three aspects: improved water supply and sanitation (especially latrines and garbage disposal) including fly control, health education on hand washing, and the promotion of breastfeeding.
Benazepril therapy as a component of antihypertensive treatment of persons with chronic renal insufficiency initially costs money, but investment costs are recouped quickly and return on investment continues to grow. The impact of end-stage renal disease on patient health and healthcare costs is great. Thus, the quality-adjusted survival benefits and overall cost savings seen in benazepril recipients over a prolonged period (2 to 7 years) indicate that the strategy of prescribing benazepril to reduce progression of renal disease in patients with renal insufficiency is both clinically and economically beneficial compared with current antihypertensive regimens without ACE inhibition.
Close monitoring of cardiovascular and renal status is indicated in ADPKD children with hypertension or borderline hypertension. In contrast to effects in hypertensive ADPKD children, ACEI treatment in normotensive or borderline hypertensive ADPKD children may prevent the development of increased LVMI and deterioration in renal function.
A beneficial effect of EPA on renal function and kidney volume in ADPKD patients could not be confirmed in the present study. Administration of EPA with DHA supplementation and/or longer intervention might be necessary to demonstrate preventive effects of omega3-polyunsaturated fatty acids on progression of ADPKD.
Lanreotide reduces liver volume within the first 6 months of treatment and the beneficial effect is maintained in the following 6 months. Stopping results in recurrence of polycystic liver growth. This suggests that continuous use of lanreotide is needed to maintain its effect.
Tolvaptan, as compared with placebo, slowed the increase in total kidney volume and the decline in kidney function over a 3-year period in patients with ADPKD but was associated with a higher discontinuation rate, owing to adverse events. (Funded by Otsuka Pharmaceuticals and Otsuka Pharmaceutical Development and Commercialization; TEMPO 3:4 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
This randomized trial is the largest clinical study of a proposed ADPKD intervention to date. It targets patients with ADPKD with early disease who are projected to have rapid cyst growth and accelerated outcomes. Blockade of vasopressin V2 receptor is hypothesized to inhibit cyst growth, thereby delaying additional adverse clinical outcomes.
In this study, effective BP control was obtained with losartan and ramipril and LVH was found to be regressed significantly in the hypertensive patients with ADPKD. These two groups of antihypertensive drugs may also have beneficial effects on the retardation of renal progression and in reducing cardiovascular mortality in hypertensive patients with ADPKD.
Within the 2-year study period,as compared with placebo, everolimus slowed the increase in total kidney volume of patients with ADPKD but did not slow the progression of renal impairment [corrected]. (Funded by Novartis; EudraCT number, 2006-001485-16; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In our study population of hypertensive ADPKD patients, no differences in renal function, urinary albumin excretion and LVMI were detected between those treated with ramipril or metoprolol, respectively, during a 3 years follow-up. Rigorous BP control prevented an increase in LVMI and reduced urinary albumin excretion, suggesting a crucial role of BP control for slowing progression of cardiac and renal organ damage in ADPKD.
Pain is a common early symptom in the course of ADPKD, although it is not related to kidney size in early disease (eGFR> 60mL/min/1.73m(2)), except in individuals with large kidneys (htTKV> 1,000 mL/m). Symptoms relating to abdominal fullness and pain are greater in patients with more advanced (eGFR, 20-45mL/min/1.73m(2)) disease and may be due to organ enlargement, especially in women. More research about the role of TKV in quality of life and outcomes of patients with ADPKD is warranted.
The prevalence of LVH in hypertensive ADPKD patients <50 years of age with short duration of hypertension, and prior use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin receptor blockers is low. Early BP intervention in ADPKD may have decreased LVH and may potentially decrease cardiovascular mortality.
In early ADPKD, the combination of lisinopril and telmisartan did not significantly alter the rate of increase in total kidney volume. As compared with standard blood-pressure control, rigorous blood-pressure control was associated with a slower increase in total kidney volume, no overall change in the estimated GFR, a greater decline in the left-ventricular-mass index, and greater reduction in urinary albumin excretion. (Funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and others; HALT-PKD [Study A] ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Monotherapy with an ACE inhibitor was associated with blood-pressure control in most patients with ADPKD and stage 3 chronic kidney disease. The addition of an ARB did not alter the decline in the estimated GFR. (Funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and others; HALT-PKD [Study B] ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Kidney enlargement resulting from the expansion of cysts in patients with ADPKD is continuous and quantifiable and is associated with the decline of renal function. Higher rates of kidney enlargement are associated with a more rapid decrease in renal function.
Isocaloric soy protein feeding ameliorates both epithelial and interstitial changes in the Han:SPRD-cy rat independent of a hypocholesterolemic effect. The histologic benefit is associated with changes in polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolism that may influence both inflammatory and proliferative pathways.
Poor reporting of methods and the use of a plethora of neuropsychological tests create great difficulties for anyone wishing to make sense of currently available data. If we are better to understand the neuropsychological effects of AEDs, a more rational approach is needed, for which recommendations are made.
We have clear evidence that each of these drugs is better than placebo at preventing seizures. When results are compared across drugs, the confidence intervals overlap, and we have no conclusive evidence of differences in efficacy or tolerability. Despite this, the agent that appears most effective may be twice as effective as the agent that appears least effective, and the agent that appears most likely to cause discontinuation may be 4 times more likely to do so than the treatment that appears least likely to do so. Comparative randomized studies are needed further to evaluate these drugs.
Enterally dosed rEpo (1000 U/kg/day) does not significantly influence erythropoiesis or iron utilization when given for a 2-week period, nor does it elevate the serum Epo concentration in preterm or term infants. Oral administration of rEpo is not an effective substitute for parenteral administration.
The diagnostic plot for differentiating anemia in VLBW infants may be an informative, clinically useful tool for iron status assessment under different physiologic and therapeutic erythropoietic states. Larger additional studies in difficult patient populations are needed before the clinical utility of this diagnostic procedure can be unequivocally confirmed.
In stable VLBW infants receiving EPO treatment, parenteral supplementation with 2 mg/kg/day of iron sucrose results in a small, but significant, augmentation of erythropoiesis beyond that of r-HuEPO and enteral iron alone. However, to reduce the potential adverse effects of parenteral iron/kg/day on increasing plasma ferritin levels and on causing oxidative injury, we suggest that the parenteral iron dose used should be reduced and/or the time of infusion extended to maintain a serum iron concentration below the total iron-binding capacity.
The rHuEpo regimen studied here was associated with an acute improvement in hematocrit and corrected reticulocyte counts. This study did not demonstrate a statistically significant decrease in transfusion therapy, in part related to increased subsequent use of rHuEpo in the control group. Taken together, these data demonstrate that this regimen can effectively treat anemia in convalescent premature infants.
In VLBW infants treated with rHuEPO, higher protein intake up to 3.1 to 3.5 gm/kg per day improved the erythropoietic response, and protein utilization for growth was improved. During treatment with rHuEPO, infants who receive adequate protein to achieve satisfactory growth also receive sufficient protein for erythropoiesis.
Commercial cow's milk protein added to human milk was as good as human milk protein supplementation in supporting growth and erythropoiesis. Fifty IU/kg r-HuEpo thrice weekly during AOP stimulated erythropoiesis significantly, but less so than 100 IU/kg. Even when using high oral doses of iron to preterms receiving r-HuEpo, our data suggested a certain degree of iron deficient erythropoiesis.
It is concluded that rhEPO therapy is safe in premature babies when given in the three dosages used in this study; in addition, it enhances erythropoiesis and reduces the need for blood transfusions. rhEPO therapy seems more efficient when given in higher dosages; however, illness severity and iron consumption represent major limiting factors. Controlled, randomized studies are warranted to confirm these data and to determine precise modalities and indications of rhEPO therapy in premature infants.
High doses of both orally administered iron and intravenously administered iron sucrose appear to supply sufficient iron for erythropoiesis in stable infants. Storage iron may become depleted after oral supplementation. The intravenous preparation appears to be safe and maintains serum ferritin concentrations, and it may be indicated for patients with low ferritin levels and for those not established on enteral feedings.
A single s.c. dose of darbepoetin given to preterm neonates accelerated effective erythropoiesis. The pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic findings suggest that darbepoetin dosing in neonates would require a higher unit dose/kg and a shorter dosing interval than are generally used for anemic adults.
Overall administration of neonatal transfusions has decreased markedly, most likely because of multiple factors. Because most RBC transfusions are given to infants weighing 1 kg or less in the first weeks of life, therapeutic strategies should focus on this group of VLBW infants during this critical period. The temporal changes observed in transfusion patterns emphasize the importance of including concurrent controls in future studies evaluating transfusion interventions.
The risk of severe IVH/PVL was significantly increased by hypocarbia. There was also an association between hypocarbia and BPD, particularly when hypocarbia was prolonged. These findings suggest that avoidance of hypocarbia may reduce the incidence of severe IVH/PVL and BPD in preterm infants.
Ventilatory management before rescue treatment with artificial surfactant therapy that result in hypocarbia may increase the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. These findings suggest that early ventilatory management should not only provide adequate oxygenation but also limit hyperventilation.
The physiologic definition of BPD reduced the overall rate of BPD and reduced the variation among centers. Significant center differences in the impact of the physiologic definition were seen, and differences remained even with the use of this standardized definition. The magnitude of the change in BPD rate is comparable to the magnitude of treatment effects seen in some clinical trials in BPD. The physiologic definition of BPD facilitates the measurement of BPD as an outcome in clinical trials and the comparison between and within centers over time.
This observational study found a reported prevalence rate of ABPA of 2% of CF patients in a large database. This rate was lower than the 5 to 15% rate reported in smaller studies, suggesting that ABPA is underdiagnosed in the CF population. There was wide regional variation in reported prevalence rates, which is unexplained at this time. The characteristics of the patients with ABPA and the epidemiologic risk factors for diagnosis of ABPA were described. Simplified diagnostic criteria were adapted for ESCF with the intent of increasing awareness of ABPA among the participants in this study.
Screening for atopy may be a cost-effective way to select CF patients for periodic monitoring with total serum IgE levels, since there is an increased risk of ABPA developing in atopic CF patients. Itraconazole treatment of ABPA is safe and associated with fewer acute episodes of ABPA despite reduction in average daily oral steroid dose.
The high numbers of records yielded by sensitive search strategies and the low precision threaten the use of systematic reviews for clinical decision making and guideline development. Reporting of specific systematic review criteria in titles and abstracts is poor, and reporting recommendations given by Quality of Reporting of Meta-analyses (QUOROM) should be used more strictly. To make identification using MEDLINE easier, there is an urgent need to set minimal criteria that any review should fulfill for it to be indexed as a systematic review.
Two third of children with wheeze are not identified by current WHO ARI (acute respiratory infections) guidelines. Antibiotics are over prescribed and bronchodilators under utilised in children with wheeze. Children with wheeze constitute a special ARI group requiring a separate management algorithm. In countries where wheeze is common it would be worthwhile to train health workers in use of the stethoscope to identify wheeze.
Guideline bodies should retract their recommendations based on fictitious data without further delay. This should not be blocked by dispute over allocation of blame. The well-conducted trials indicate a statistically significant 27% increase in mortality from the initiation of perioperative β-blockade that guidelines currently recommend. Any remaining enthusiasts might best channel their energy into a further randomised trial which should be designed carefully and conducted honestly.
Due to the phenomenal development in human molecular genetics the pathogenesis of several neuromuscular disorders in children has been clarified over the last decade. Nowadays many new diagnostic methods, including techniques of fetal diagnosis, and a more objective genotype-phenotype correlation as well as classification are available.
There is some evidence that RMT improves a number of respiratory function parameters in patients with Parkinson disease and multiple sclerosis; however, the number of studies and their quality are not sufficient to conclude whether IMT or EMT is effective in improving respiratory function in patients with neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS.
We conclude that respiratory muscle strength is enhanced by training in the patients with muscular dystrophy who are ambulatory, but inspiratory and/or expiratory training effect is specific to the trained muscles. The techniques that improve the strength of respiratory muscles should be included in the physiotherapy management of patients with muscular dystrophy.
In conclusion, the results from this study would suggest that use of an electric toothbrush with an orthodontic brush head may be of benefit in promoting gingival health in fixed orthodontic appliance patients; however, the long-term effects (over at least 6 months) need to be evaluated.
This study did not demonstrate that the ultrasonic toothbrush was better in reducing gingival inflammation in adolescent orthodontic patients, but plaque scores were lowered on buccal surfaces of teeth with orthodontic brackets. In addition, S mutans counts were markedly decreased in the electric and ultrasonic groups, which should be related to a reduced risk of oral disease.
A 5-week training period with repeated hands-on instruction gives panellists the skill to perform brushing with efficacy comparable to that of professional brushing. In agreement with a previous study, the 3D was more effective than a flat-trimmed manual toothbrush (Van der Weijden et al. 1994). Brushing with the criss-cross resulted in small statistical differences with the 3D and the flat-trimmed manual toothbrush. The clinical relevance of these statistically significant results should be the subject of a longitudinal study.
Both brushes were able to remove a significant amount of plaque, but the D15 was significantly more effective compared to the Dentasonic. The additional "microbrush-clip" for the proximal embrasures failed to improve plaque removal from these tooth surfaces, compared to the D15 alone.
The results of the present study have shown that in a group of dental students trained in manual brushing technique, where efficacy was similar with the 3 toothbrushes tested, there is no evidence of greater gingival abrasion with either Braun Oral-B Plak Control Ultra or 3D when compared with a manual brush.
The powered toothbrush delivered statistically significantly superior plaque removal after both 1 and 3 minutes of brushing compared to the manual toothbrush. Both toothbrushes showed statistically significantly greater plaque removal following 3 minutes of brushing than following 1 minute of brushing, and the difference between the toothbrushes was greater following 3 minutes of brushing than following 1 minute of brushing.
Some designs created an artificial research environment that may have undermined the findings. Authors of toothbrush trials should consider the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials statement. Greater standardization of the indices used is required. Trials of longer duration would enhance the evaluation of powered toothbrushes. Data on thresholds for clinically significant differences in plaque and gingivitis levels would help to determine whether oral hygiene aids provide important health benefits.
Preventive treatment with topical rectal BDP during radiotherapy for prostate cancer significantly reduces the risk of rectal bleeding and radiation-induced mucosal changes and improves patient's quality of life, but does not influence other radiation-induced symptoms.
We provide evidence that prophylactic and ongoing use of topical therapy with either topical corticosteroid or a dexpanthenol-containing emollient ameliorates, but does not prevent radiation dermatitis. Our data suggest, but do not prove, a benefit of a topical corticosteroid vs. a dexpanthenol-containing emollient. Further controlled studies with larger cohorts will be needed to determine optimal forms of topical therapy for radiation dermatitis.
Home telemonitoring of respiratory conditions results in early identification of deteriorations in patient condition and symptom control. Positive patient attitude and receptiveness of this approach are promising. However, evidence on the magnitude of clinical and structural effects remains preliminary, with variations in study approaches and an absence of robust study designs and formal evaluations. Assessment of providers' attitudes toward telemonitoring and its effect on their workload is necessary.
This study provides nationally representative prevalence estimates of PAD in the United States, revealing that PAD affects more than 5 million adults. PAD prevalence increases dramatically with age and disproportionately affects blacks. The vast majority of individuals with PAD have 1 or more cardiovascular disease risk factors that should be targeted for therapy.
In light of new trial data that have accumulated in the past decade, we review the evidence for the efficacy and safety of colchicine for the prevention of recurrent episodes of pericarditis. Clinical and personal experience shows that colchicine may be an extremely promising adjunct to conventional treatment and may ultimately serve as the initial mode of treatment, especially in idiopathic cases.
Although there were some clues indicating a depressed inflammatory response with IFN, we could not demonstrate a definitive effect of this agent in this double-blind trial. The drug may suppress the acute inflammation of FMF only if administered at the earliest phase. CRP and SAA may be more sensitive indicators of an attack than ESR or fibrinogen.
In phenotype II amyloidosis patients, the distribution of the four common MEFV mutations was not significantly different from that found in all FMF patients with typical symptoms who do or do not develop amyloidosis. We therefore suggest that secondary genetic or environmental factors are operative in the development of secondary amyloidosis in patients with FMF.
The anti-inflammatory effect of colchicine may be mediated not only through direct interaction with microtubules but also through changes at the transcriptional level. This latter effect apparently requires a higher concentration and a longer time to occur. This can explain the observation that colchicine does not have an immediate effect when given during an acute attack of FMF.
Reallocation of treatment resources could substantially decrease the problem of unmet need for treatment of mental disorders among serious cases. Structural barriers exist to this reallocation. Careful consideration needs to be given to the value of treating some mild cases, especially those at risk for progressing to more serious disorders.
The so-called 'low-prevalence' psychotic disorders represent a major and complex public health problem, associated with heavy personal and social costs. There is a need for a broad programmatic approach, involving various sectors of the community, to tackle the multiple dimensions of clinical disorder, personal functioning and socioeconomic environment that influence the course and outcome of psychosis and ultimately determine the effectiveness of service-based intervention.
The authors propose that fast dissociation from the D(2) receptor makes an antipsychotic more accommodating of physiological dopamine transmission, permitting an antipsychotic effect without motor side effects, prolactin elevation, or secondary negative symptoms. In contrast to the multireceptor hypotheses, the authors predict that the atypical antipsychotic effect can be produced by appropriate modulation of the D(2) receptor alone; the blockade of other receptors is neither necessary nor sufficient.
The prevalence of substance problems among people suffering from severe mental disorders is high, and seems to be associated with greater use of in-patient services. This is a significant clinical problem, with cost implications. Further investigation is needed for adequate service provision.
Many of the same variables that correlate with substance use disorder also correlated with moderate substance use in this sample of people with schizophrenia. Although moderate users of alcohol and drugs may have better social functioning in some areas, they also are likely to have substantial problems in interpersonal relationships, especially those involving family members.
These results demonstrate that stress-related increases in cocaine craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses are each associated with specific cocaine relapse outcomes. The findings support the use of stress-induced drug craving and associated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to evaluate cocaine relapse propensity. Furthermore, treatments that address stress-induced cocaine craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responses could be of benefit in improving relapse outcomes in cocaine dependence.
Poor adherence to antipsychotic medications was consistently associated with higher risk of relapse and rehospitalization and higher hospitalization costs. To reduce the cost of hospitalizations among schizophrenia patients, it seems clear that efforts to increase medication adherence should be undertaken.
Ultrasound assistance was superior to LM techniques. D outperformed S but may require more training and personnel. All central cannula placement should be conducted with ultrasound assistance. The 2001 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Evidence Report dismissing static assistance was incorrect.
US-guided CVC placement in children is associated with decreased number of anatomical sites attempted and decreased number of attempts to gain placement. Time to placement by residents was decreased with US, but not the time to placement by other operators. US guidance increased the use of internal jugular catheter placement and decreased artery punctures. US guidance did not improve success rates.
Emergency physicians with limited training and experience are able to use ultrasound as an adjunct for central venous access. Ultrasound technology may decrease the number of CVA attempts required to cannulate a central vein and will decrease the amount of time required to cannulate the vein starting from the time when the needle is on the skin, after the ultrasound machine has been set up and turned on. These results are especially true for those patients considered to be "difficult sticks."
Doppler guidance did not increase the success rate or decrease the complication rate of subclavian vein catheterization when compared with the standard technique in high-risk patients. Doppler guidance was not more useful than the standard technique as a salvage technique following a previous failure of catheterization. Furthermore, real-time Doppler guidance of subclavian vein catheterization is a technique that is highly operator dependent.
These findings suggest that anatomical variation may partly account for the inability to cannulate the internal jugular vein in certain patients. In these cases, ultrasound examination quickly establishes the position of the internal jugular vein and may allow for easy and rapid access.
Adoption of real-time ultrasound to guide CVC placement has the potential to improve successful line placement and minimized complications. It can improve patient safety. However, there are significant cost concerns and the reported adverse events are generally minor and easy to treat. Before creating study protocols to increase usage of this technology, both current usage and cost effectiveness should be determined.
The achievement of excellence in anaesthesia is likely to depend on the successful interplay of individuals' personal qualities and the environment in which they work. Thus, not only trainees but also educational supervisors, heads of departments, and those responsible for organizing training systems all have a part to play in the encouragement of excellence.
National Institute for Clinical Excellence guidance on the use of ultrasound locating devices for placing central venous catheters is not universally adhered to. Among the reasons for this are problems with availability of equipment, lack of training in the use of ultrasound and non-acceptance of the guidelines.
Although both intervention programs resulted in decreased pain and improved function in persons with PFP, outcomes in the posterolateral hip exercise group were superior to the quadriceps exercise group. The superior outcomes obtained in the posterolateral hip exercise group were maintained 6 months postintervention.
Symptoms of PFPS improved over time in terms of pain and knee function regardless of the treatment group. Patellar bracing did not improve the symptoms of PFPS more quickly when added to a home program of leg strengthening. However, patellar bracing alone can improve the symptoms of PFPS.
Diagnostic validity values for the use of the Clarke sign in assessing chondromalacia patella were unsatisfactory, supporting suggestions that it has poor diagnostic value as a clinical examination technique. Additionally, an extensive search of the available literature for the Clarke sign reveals multiple problems with the test, causing significant confusion for clinicians. Therefore, the use of the Clarke sign as a routine part of a knee examination is not beneficial, and its use should be discontinued.
These findings indicate inconsistency in practicing evidence-based medicine in neonatal practice, where therapies are often administered on the basis of weaker evidence of safety and benefit than supports vitamin A supplementation. Educational interventions may be required to endorse the benefits and safety of vitamin A supplementation.
These meta-analyses show a significant reduction in risk of CLD at 28 days and 36 weeks of postmenstrual age. In the subgroup where dexamethasone was started between 7 and 14 days of age mortality was significantly reduced. Caution is warranted in the routine use of dexamethasone because of lack of data on long term neurodevelopmental outcomes.
Severe isolated thrombocytopenia may appear as a side effect when using clopidogrel and pentoxifylline. These drugs are widely used by general physicians, internists, cardiologists and vascular surgeons. We hope this report will raise awareness of the need to monitor the platelet count in patients taking these drugs.
In this study, intubated infants weighing less than 2,000 g at birth in whom BPD developed had increased exposure to inflammation prenatally (chorioamnionitis) and evidence of increased lung inflammation from the first postnatal day. We speculate that chorioamnionitis may accelerate lung maturation but that it also causes lung inflammation and subsequent lung injury in intubated infants, fostering the development of BPD.
A minimal-intensity family-based prevention program did not significantly reduce rates of susceptibility or tobacco use among youth aged 10-12 at baseline and 11 to 14 at follow-up. Development and evaluation of innovative approaches to tobacco use prevention must continue, despite our disappointing results. Parents and health care systems are too important to abandon as channels for prevention messages.
Given adequate exposure to the Smoke-free Kids programme, significant beneficial effects were observed on anti-smoking socialisation in households where parents smoke cigarettes, and significant beneficial effects were observed on children's susceptibility to smoking after two years. Improving programme acceptance and utilisation is necessary before programme effectiveness can be demonstrated.
The results of this randomized, controlled trial indicate that the inclusion of a parental monitoring intervention affords additional protection from involvement in adolescent risk behaviors 6 and 12 months later compared with the provision of an intervention that targets adolescents only. At the same time, the results of the present study do not provide sufficient evidence that booster sessions further improve targeted behaviors enough to include them in a combined parent and youth intervention.
The use of smoking prevention programs in schools should be reconsidered, and their evaluation should be based on educational rather than clinical criteria. Proposed changes in the program include decreasing its intensity, starting with students of an earlier age and seeking greater involvement of parents.
Prenatal and infancy home visitation reduced the proportion of girls entering the criminal justice system. For girls born to high-risk mothers, there were additional positive program effects consistent with results from earlier phases of this trial. There were few program effects for boys.
A package of interventions with teachers, parents, and children provided throughout the elementary grades can have enduring effects in reducing violent behavior, heavy drinking, and sexual intercourse by age 18 years among multiethnic urban children. Results are consistent with the theoretical model guiding the intervention and support efforts to reduce health-risk behaviors through universal interventions in selected communities or schools serving high-crime neighborhoods.
Study results indicate the importance of conducting evaluations of previously validated programs in contexts that differ from the original study sample. Also, the findings highlight the need for further research with urban, low-income adolescents from different ethnic backgrounds to identify effective methods to prevent and reduce alcohol use.
A culturally sensitive family-based intervention for migrant Hispanic youth was found to be effective in increasing perceived parent-child communication in families with fewer children. It is expected that increases in this important protective factor will lead to later observed decreases in tobacco and alcohol use.
These results suggest that the Tobacco Free Duo program contributed to a reduction in adolescent smoking among both boys and girls. Using a multi-faceted intervention that includes adolescent-adult partnership can reduce adolescent smoking uptake, and the intervention has been proven to be sustainable within communities.
More comprehensive interventions than school health education alone will be needed to reduce teenage smoking. Other measures including further restrictions on access to cigarettes and on the promotion of tobacco products need to be considered. Further research will be needed to develop effective school based health education projects, which should be formally field tested under normal conditions before widespread dissemination.
Additional research on parenting style and its impact on adolescent smoking with a more economically and ethnically diverse sample is warranted. If future research confirms the strength of the relationship between parenting style and adolescent smoking, teaching positive parenting, including facilitating intimate yet autonomous relationships, may be considered as part of smoking prevention and cessation programs.
Study findings modestly support the viability of a mother-daughter, computer-mediated program to prevent underage drinking among adolescent girls. The data have implications for the further development of gender-specific approaches to combat increases in alcohol and other substance use among American girls.
The student program resulted in significant improvements in drug knowledge, refusal skills, attitudes, normative expectations, assertiveness, and anxiety reduction techniques. In addition, the effectiveness of several components of the tobacco prevention program for the children was impacted by the smoking status of their parents/guardians. Drug-use intentions and behaviors were lower at posttest for children from homes of nonsmokers versus children from homes of smokers. Parents/guardians consistently reported that smoking was detrimental to themselves, the public, and their children. Of those parents/guardians who identified themselves as smokers (26%) and received cessation materials, 46.4% indicated that the information motivated them to want to quit.
Intervention schools reported significantly higher mean F/V servings at post intervention and 1-year, and for knowledge of F/V recommendations at immediate post compared to controls. Higher levels of parent and community involvement may further increase F/V intake in future interventions. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
Interventions establishing conservative drug use norms in classrooms may be an effective strategy in reducing substance use onset among adolescents. Utilization of appropriate analytic strategies is important in the analysis and interpretation of data containing nested structures.
Attempts should be made to use common definitions of outcome and predictor variables. Analyses should include multivariate and bivariate models, with some attempt in the multivariate models to test specific hypotheses. Future research should be theory driven and consider the range of possible factors, such as social, personal, economic, environmental, biological, and physiological influences, that may influence smoking behaviour. The apparent inconsistencies in relationships between parental socioeconomic status and adolescent disposable income need to be resolved as does the underlying constructs for which socioeconomic status is a proxy.
Further research into the relationship of biotin to taste is clearly indicated. Loss of taste was very distressing and significantly altered the quality of life for both patients. Since biotin up to 40 mg per day has been shown to be safe, a therapeutic trial of pharmacologic doses of biotin should be considered as a potentially curative treatment in patients who present with a loss of taste that has no obvious cause.
Zinc treatment is effective in patients in whom this trace metal increases synthesis/secretion of gustin/CAVI and ineffective in those in whom it does not. Increased gustin/CAVI in this disorder is probably associated with zinc stimulation of the gene responsible for the synthesis/secretion of gustin/CAVI. Among nonresponders, zinc was ineffective for several possible reasons, including resistance to zinc and possible sialylation of gustin/CAVI, which may render it functionally ineffective. Results suggest the hypothesis that gustin/CAVI is a trophic factor that promotes growth and development of taste buds through its action on taste bud stem cells.
In Japan, the number of patients seeking treatment for taste disorders from otolaryngologists is approximately 240 000/year, and this number has almost doubled in the last 13 years. Taste examinations are routinely conducted in almost all university hospitals; testing is not as common in private clinics. Administration of zinc is the main treatment for taste disorders in Japan.
Patients with HCV-infected liver disease have decreased sensitivity to different tastes and decreased zinc levels. Some patients were unaware that they had a taste disorder. Aminofeel improved sensitivity to different tastes and increased zinc values. Thus, Aminofeel is a useful therapeutic agent for taste disorders.
Taste changes are a frequent and significant problem for patients receiving chemotherapy and have negative effects on patients' QOL. Oncology nurses and physicians typically do not offer self-management suggestions to patients. IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING RESEARCH AND PRACTICE: Repeated-measures research may provide a clearer understanding of chemotherapy-associated taste changes over time. Studies to examine strategies suggested from this and other research as well as clinical literature may determine which self-care interventions are most useful. Nurses should inform patients that taste changes may occur following chemotherapy, provide self-management information, and assess for related problems that could increase chemotherapy morbidity.
Pregabalin administered at 600 mg/day is safe, generally well tolerated, and efficacious as adjunctive therapy for the treatment of patients with partial seizures, with or without secondary generalizations. This dose can be administered on a twice daily or three times daily schedule with similar efficacy and tolerability results.
Pregabalin administered twice daily, either as fixed (600 mg/day), or as flexible (150-600 mg/day) dose, was highly effective and generally well-tolerated as add-on therapy for partial seizures with or without secondary generalization. Lower incidence of adverse events and discontinuations were achieved in patients receiving pregabalin when dosing was individualized to optimize efficacy and tolerability.
The evaluation demonstrated that AS! BC was appropriate and feasible for use in the First Nations schools in these rural and remote communities with some cultural adaptations and ongoing support. Rural and remote locations have very specific challenges that need to be considered in broader dissemination strategies.
Epstein's family-based behavioural treatment produced promising effects in both the short and the longer term in a clinical sample of Icelandic children with substantial rates of co-morbid concerns. Co-morbid problems affect outcome and tailoring treatment to address co-morbid concerns might improve outcomes for certain subgroups.
A culturally tailored after-school dance and screen time reduction intervention for low-income, preadolescent African American girls did not significantly reduce BMI gain compared with health education but did produce potentially clinically important reductions in lipid levels, hyperinsulinemia, and depressive symptoms. There was also evidence for greater effectiveness in high-risk subgroups of girls.
Results following year one of CEMHaVi showed that a program of physical activity and health education had positive effects on obesity, behavior in the classroom and the ability to perform sport activities in obese adolescents. Significant inter-action in changes between variables was observed. Findings are important for designing intervention models to improve health in obese youth.
Future research examining the effects of physically active academic instruction is warranted. The impact of physically active academic lessons of greater intensity may provide larger benefits for body mass index and academic achievement.
This study shows that overweight and obese boys and girls are of higher odds of being exposed to bullying than their normal weight peers. Moreover, this study finds that body image may statistically explain this association between overweight and exposure to bullying. However, the study is cross-sectional, and hypotheses of possibilities for opposite causality are possible.
Childhood obesity in this study did not lead to poor math performance. Being obese in the pre-school years and normal weight in primary school, however, was associated with improved math performance. This finding points to a potential nutritional window for early child development.
Defining the international cut-offs in terms of the underlying LMS curves has several benefits. New cut-offs are easy to derive (e.g. BMI 35 for morbid obesity), and they can be expressed as BMI centiles (e.g. boys obesity = 98.9th centile), allowing them to be compared with other BMI references. For WHO, median BMI is relatively low in early life and high at older ages, probably due to its method of construction.
The results indicate that among obese children enrolled in family-based treatment, self-reported teasing/social rejection is quite high and it is associated with poorer psychological adjustment as well as lower academic competencies. Parent reports corroborate the presence of substantial peer difficulties, supporting the need to address peer relations with overweight children both in clinical practice and in public health interventions.
Television viewing in childhood and adolescence is associated with poor educational achievement by 26 years of age. Excessive television viewing in childhood may have long-lasting adverse consequences for educational achievement and subsequent socioeconomic status and well-being.
Scientifically rigorous evaluation of school health programs is challenging to conduct due to issues related to sample size, recruitment, random assignment to condition, implementation fidelity, costs, and adequate follow-up time. However, school health programs hold promise for improving academic outcomes for children.
Overweight and obese adolescents had 36% and 37% more sick days, respectively, than adolescents of normal weight. The results suggest another potential aspect of obesity prevention and reduction efforts among children and families is to improve children's school attendance.
This study demonstrates an inverse relationship between obesity at 16 years and earnings at age 23 years for British women; the magnitude of the relation is similar to that of other factors that predict earnings, such as gender, job training, and union membership. In the case of men, we found a positive relationship between height and subsequent earnings but no obesity effects.
There are modest adverse effects of television viewing before age 3 years on the subsequent cognitive development of children. These results suggest that greater adherence to the American Academy of Pediatrics guidelines that children younger than 2 years not watch television is warranted.
Inhaled helium-oxygen improves the overall respiratory status of children with acute RSV lower respiratory tract infection. In patients with mild-to-moderate bronchiolitis (Clinical Asthma Scores of <6), the beneficial effects of helium-oxygen were most pronounced in children with the greatest degree of respiratory compromise.
Nasal continuous positive airway pressure improves the clinical score and the CO(2) elimination of infants with refractory bronchiolitis. These positive effects are significantly enhanced when nasal continuous positive airway pressure is combined with heliox instead of air oxygen. Both techniques are noninvasive, seem safe, and may reduce the need for endotracheal intubation.
In infants with moderate-to-severe respiratory syncytial virus bronchiolitis, heliox therapy enhanced their clinical respiratory status, according to the marked improvement in their clinical scores and the reduction of the accompanying tachycardia and tachypnea. This beneficial response occurred within the first hour of its administration and was maintained as long as heliox therapy continued. In addition, PICU-LOS was reduced in heliox-treated patients. Long-term prospective studies are required to corroborate these findings and to establish the proper place of heliox in the therapeutic schedule of bronchiolitis.
The addition of helium has a significant effect on Fio(2) delivery, displayed inspiratory V(T), and actual delivered V(T) during both volume- and pressure-controlled ventilation in four ventilators commonly used in pediatric critical care. These effects are both ventilator specific and ventilation mode specific, mandating vigilance during helium ventilation in clinical practice.
Heliox administration is most effective during conditions involving density-dependent increases in airway resistance, especially when used early in an acute disease process. Any beneficial effect of heliox should become evident in a relatively short period of time. The medical literature supports the use of heliox to relieve respiratory distress, decrease the work of breathing, and improve gas exchange. No adverse effects of heliox have been reported. However, heliox must be administered with vigilance and continuous monitoring to avoid technical complications.
Based on the available data, precisely quantifying the risk of apnea attributable to RSV infection is not possible. Factors intrinsic to the individual infants may account for a significant percentage of the apnea attributed to RSV. Recent studies have found a < 1% incidence of apnea with RSV in previously healthy term infants.
In the treatment of acute bronchiolitis in infants, inhaled racemic adrenaline is not more effective than inhaled saline. However, the strategy of inhalation on demand appears to be superior to that of inhalation on a fixed schedule. (Funded by Medicines for Children; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Heliox administration via a standard high-concentration reservoir mask leads to significant dilution by room air. For the full potential benefits of heliox to be realised in spontaneously breathing patients, it should be administered via a system that achieves a gas tight seal, with no leaks between the delivery device and the surroundings.
A structured, time-limited intervention is effective in assisting chronic users of benzodiazepine medication to discontinue or reduce their use of medication. The addition of cognitive behavior therapy alleviates insomnia, but sleep improvements may become noticeable only after several months of benzodiazepine abstinence.
Ten years after a minimal intervention to decrease long-term benzodiazepine use, the majority of patients who were able to discontinue benzodiazepine use initially, does not use benzodiazepines at 10-year follow-up. Patients who did not succeed in maintaining abstinence from benzodiazepines appear to use lower or average dosages.
Gradual drug withdrawal was associated with substantial hypnotic reduction at posttreatment and follow-up, and withdrawal side-effects were absent. When supplemented with CBT, participants accrued incremental self-reported, but not PSG, sleep benefits.
TO+CBT and TOA both led to a reduction in benzodiazepine costs. However, it remains uncertain which healthcare utilisation has a causal relationship with long-term benzodiazepine consumption or its treatment. Although the ICERs indicated better cost effectiveness for TOA than for TO+CBT, the differences were relatively small. The addition of group CBT to tapering off had no clinical or economic advantages. Extrapolation of our data showed that the investment in TOA was paid back after 19 months when corrected for treatment gain with usual care.
In this prospective population based study, new use of benzodiazepines was associated with increased risk of dementia. The result was robust in pooled analyses across cohorts of new users of benzodiazepines throughout the study and in a complementary case-control study. Considering the extent to which benzodiazepines are prescribed and the number of potential adverse effects of this drug class in the general population, indiscriminate widespread use should be cautioned against.
In contrast to the short-term effects after 3 months, no long-term effects of brief MI sessions on PD use were found. More intensive interventions, booster-sessions or regular aftercare might help in stabilizing intervention effects on PD use among hospital patients. However, studies using larger samples are needed to allow more powerful and specific analyses. Different samples should be examined. Problems concerning the recruitment of study participants in PD research were discussed and should be considered in further studies.
Despite a seemingly well-organised system for transition of patients from the GEMU to their homes, one or more unwanted incidents occurred in most patients during discharge or four weeks post discharge. The study has revealed areas of importance for improving transitional care of geriatric patients.
The incidence of hip fracture appears to be associated with benzodiazepine use. Contrary to several previous studies, short half-life benzodiazepines are not safer than long half-life benzodiazepines. Hip fracture risk is highest during the first 2 weeks after starting a benzodiazepine and declines thereafter.
The methodological quality of studies needs to be improved and more rigorous research designs should be followed that will allow the effectiveness and quality of movement to be assessed. The satisfaction of the patient and family with the devices should be analyzed in future studies.
Hip displacement is common in children with cerebral palsy, with an overall incidence of 35% found in this study. The risk of hip displacement is directly related to gross motor function as graded with the Gross Motor Function Classification System. This information may be important when assessing the risk of hip displacement for an individual child who has cerebral palsy, for counseling parents, and in the design of screening programs and resource allocation.
In normal subjects urinary saturation of calcium oxalate was higher on a high calcium diet than a low calcium diet during liberal oxalate intake because the decrease in urinary oxalate did not overcome the effect of increased calcium. A high calcium diet during liberal oxalate intake may pose an increased risk of calcium oxalate stone formation.
High intake of dietary calcium appears to decrease risk for symptomatic kidney stones, whereas intake of supplemental calcium may increase risk. Because dietary calcium reduces the absorption of oxalate, the apparently different effects caused by the type of calcium may be associated with the timing of calcium ingestion relative to the amount of oxalate consumed. However, other factors present in dairy products (the major source of dietary calcium) could be responsible for the decreased risk seen with dietary calcium.
Reduced BMD was detected in a large proportion of children with IH. Hypercalciuria and reduced BMD were uncovered in a substantial number of their otherwise healthy asymptomatic mothers. The diminished BMD in adults with IH may start early in life, could be influenced by genetic factors, and may represent a risk factor for osteoporosis later in life.
Dietary restriction of calcium and oxalate, combined with thiazide and potassium citrate, satisfactorily controlled hypercalciuria, prevented the secondary increase in urinary oxalate, reduced urinary saturation of calcium oxalate, virtually eliminated recurrent stone formation, and increased bone density of the spine and femoral neck. Thus, this dietary pharmacological program controlled stone formation as well as bone loss that often accompany type 1 absorptive hypercalciuria.
: A low TmPi is more frequently encountered in stone formers with a normal PTH concentration than in control subjects and is associated with a high urinary Ca excretion. The hypophosphatemia induced by a renal phosphate leak may predispose the subject to calcium stone formation by increasing the serum calcitriol level, calcium excretion, and urinary saturation.
The evaluation of urinary risk profiles of the patients on their usual dietary habits revealed a high risk for calcium oxalate stone formation. A low fluid intake and an increased intake of protein and alcohol were identified as the most important dietary risk factors. The shift to a nutritionally balanced diet according to the recommendations for calcium oxalate stone formers significantly reduced the stone forming potential.
It is proposed that patients with idiopathic hypercalciuria have an "inappropriately' high phosphate excretion for any given serum calcium concentration. Loss of phosphate may induce increased activation of 1,25-(OH)2-vitamin D. Some of the commonly described causes of stone formation may be manifestations of a single mechanism.
Using an accessible, balanced, understandable format for all healthcare personnel about their influenza immunization decision appears to have an impact on both healthcare personnel's confidence in their immunization decision and in their intent to be immunized.
The program appears to facilitate decision making and may help to ensure informed consent. For patients with herniated disks, it reduced the surgery rate without diminishing patient outcomes. Its impact on costs of care depends on the proportion of patients with various diagnoses and on local surgery rates.
Both the booklet alone and the combination of videodisc and booklet improved knowledge. The combination produced greater knowledge gains than the booklet alone for the subgroup with the least knowledge at baseline. Patients preferred the combination and had a slightly lower preference for surgery if they had viewed the video presentation. For some patients, the video may enhance involvement in clinical decisions.
Exposure to Prosdex was associated with improved knowledge about the PSA test and prostate cancer. Men who had a high level of knowledge had a less favourable attitude toward and were less likely to undergo PSA testing. Prosdex appears to promote informed decision making regarding the PSA test.
An interactive computer program was more effective than standard genetic counseling for increasing knowledge of breast cancer and genetic testing among women at low risk of carrying a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. However, genetic counseling was more effective than the computer at reducing women's anxiety and facilitating more accurate risk perceptions. These results suggest that this computer program has the potential to stand alone as an educational intervention for low-risk women but should be used as a supplement to genetic counseling for those at high risk.
An interactive digital education aid is a beneficial educational adjunct for patients contemplating breast reconstruction. Patients who use an interactive digital education aid demonstrate greater factual knowledge, reduced anxiety, and increased postoperative satisfaction compared with patients given preoperative instructions using standard methods alone. The benefit of an interactive digital education aid is expected to be higher in a broad-based practice setting outside of a comprehensive cancer center.
Although the intervention led to intensified processing of the information it affected neither the roles adopted in physician-patient encounters nor the immunotherapy choices made. Providing patients with balanced information may not be sufficient to alter the decision-making process.
Neither intervention had an effect on health status. Providing women with information alone did not affect treatment choices; however, the addition of an interview to clarify values and elicit preferences had a significant effect on women's management and resulted in reduced costs.
Patients in the decision aid groups were more informed and more engaged in the screening decision than their control counterparts. Exposure did not promote shared decision-making control, however. Whether shared decision making is the ideal model and how to measure its occurrence are subjects for further research.
Comorbidity burden was associated with regular mammography and earlier stage at diagnosis. Racial/ethnic disparities in late stage disease were reduced among women who received both regular mammograms and comorbidity-related care.
For patients with atrial fibrillation who had participated in a major clinical trial, the use of an AB decision aid improved their understanding of the benefits and risks associated with different treatment options and helped them make definitive choices about which therapy to take. Further studies are necessary to evaluate the acceptability and impact of decision aids in other clinical settings.
Providing information to support choice did not adversely affect attendance for screening for diabetes. Those from more socially deprived groups were, however, less likely to attend, regardless of the type of invitation received. Further attention to invitation content alone is unlikely to achieve equity in uptake of preventive services.
This DA increased knowledge and assisted women to make an informed choice. It did not alter participation in screening. The DA is an effective way to assist women to make a decision about continuing mammography screening and seems to be a feasible intervention within a population screening program.
Although the psychosocial effect was initially worse for women allocated to HPV triage, over the full year of follow-up this intervention was better for women's psychosocial health than repeat smear testing. Offering informed choice could have a small advantage for cognitive outcomes, but in view of the additional effort and logistical complexity that this intervention requires, HPV testing alone can be justified for most women.
The web-based decision aid increased patients' ability to form a test preference and their intent to receive screening, regardless of literacy level. Further study should examine ways the decision aid can be combined with additional system changes to increase CRC screening.
This trial demonstrates that, among patients facing a real treatment decision, interventions to inform patients about hypertension and to clarify patients' values concerning outcomes of treatment are effective in reducing decisional conflict and increasing patient knowledge, while not resulting in any increases in state anxiety.
Women making a decision about mode of delivery following previous caesarean section value some form of structured information to help reduce decisional conflict. Information provision for women making this decision needs to be relevant to their individual needs. Decision analysis may help reconcile prior preferences and the actual mode of delivery.
Decision aids can help women who have had a previous caesarean section to decide on mode of delivery in a subsequent pregnancy. The decision analysis approach might substantially affect national rates of caesarean section. Trial Registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN84367722.
There was no significant difference in satisfaction with decision-making process scores between the IHD SDP and usual practice groups. The IHD SDP patients were more knowledgeable, underwent less revascularization (interventional therapies), and demonstrated increased patient decision-making autonomy without apparent impact on quality of life.
The decision aid reduced decisional conflict in men with benign prostatic hypertrophy, and the patients played a more active part in decision making. Such programmes could be delivered cheaply by the internet, and there are good arguments for coordinated investment in them, particularly for conditions in which patient utilities are important.
Only half of men receiving unsolicited prostate cancer screening decision aids before a visit reported using the aids, and who reported using them varied by type of aid. Efforts to broadly implement decision aids may need to offer a variety of approaches, and incorporate creative strategies to enhance reaching all population subgroups.
Mailed interventions enhance patient knowledge and self-reported participation in decision making, and alter screening preferences. The pamphlet and video interventions evaluated are comparable in effectiveness. The lower-cost pamphlet approach is an attractive option for clinics with limited resources.
This decision aid improves women's labour analgesia knowledge without increasing anxiety. Significantly, the decision aid group were more informed of labour analgesia options, and considered the opinion of their care providers more often when making their analgesia decisions, thus improving informed decision making.
A vascular access PtDA for eligible patients undergoing coronary angiogram procedures reduces decisional conflict and improves value congruence and the patients' knowledge of their healthcare options; however, a multicenter study, powered to confirm these benefits and evaluate differences in procedural success or complications, is required.
Tailored decision support information can be effective in supporting informed choices and greater involvement in decisions about faecal occult blood testing among adults with low levels of education, without increasing anxiety or worry about developing bowel cancer. Using a decision aid to make an informed choice may, however, lead to lower uptake of screening. Trial registration ClinicalTrials.gov 
Evidence based risk information on colorectal cancer screening increased informed choices and improved knowledge, with little change in attitudes. The intervention did not affect the combination of actual and planned uptake of screening. Trial registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN47105521.
Although patients vary in their expressiveness, physicians may be able to increase patient participation in deciding treatment by using patient-centered behavior. Also, preconsultation education appears to be an effective clinical strategy for helping patients gain an accurate understanding of their treatment options before meeting with physicians.
Decision conflict was lower immediately following the use of a computerised decision aid in a shared decision-making consultation than immediately following direct doctor-led advice based on paper guidelines. Furthermore, participants in the computerised decision aid group were significantly much less likely to start warfarin than those in the guidelines arm. The results show that such an approach has a positive impact on decision conflict comparable to other studies of decision aids, but also reduces the uptake of a clinically effective treatment that may have important implications for health outcomes.
A multifaceted empowerment strategy encouraged use of single embryo transfer, increased patients' knowledge, reduced costs, and had no effect on levels of anxiety or depression. This strategy could therefore be an important tool to reduce the twin pregnancy rate after in vitro fertilisation. This trial did not, however, demonstrate the anticipated 25% difference in use of single embryo transfer of the power calculation.
Additional information led to an increase in specific treatment decisions and changed the distribution of used treatments without increasing the number of surgical procedures. The study suggests that well-informed women adopting an active role may counteract physicians' emphasis on newly introduced treatments.
Among primary care patients of predominantly lower socioeconomic status, those who received informed consent were significantly less interested in PSA screening than those who did not. For physicians who offer the PSA as a screening test, this finding highlights the importance of apprising patients of the associated benefits, burdens, and uncertainties and allowing them to participate in the screening decision.
Involving elderly patients in the decision whether to screen with the PSA by providing them with information leads to a significant reduction in interest in such screening. Factors that appear to influence the screening preferences of informed elderly patients include perceived efficacy of screening and marital status, whereas uninformed patients are more likely to weigh the perceived seriousness of prostate cancer in their screening decision.
Elderly patients appeared to understand CRC screening information and use it to gauge the efficacy of screening, but provision of information had no impact on their preferences for screening. In view of the large proportion who preferred not to be screened, we conclude that elderly patients should be involved in the screening decision. However, factors other than provision of information must determine their CRC screening preferences.
Unintended decision aid use in the context of videotaped encounters in a practical randomized trial was common. These instances offer insights to researchers seeking to design and implement effective decision aids for use during the clinical visit, particularly when clinicians may prefer to proceed in ways that the decision aid apparently contradicts.
The DA seems an acceptable and useful decision making resource in this setting. Strategies for reducing anxiety levels linked to booklet administration are outlined. The DA has been revised to reflect pilot findings and changes in clinical evidence, and the effectiveness of the DA in reducing decisional conflict and regret is being evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.
Internet-based trials comparing different presentations of treatment effects are feasible, but recruiting participants is a major challenge. Despite a slightly higher response rate for CRS, VAS is preferable to avoid approximation of a continuous variable. Although most participants preferred the RRR, participants shown the RRR were more likely to decide to take statins regardless of their values compared with participants who were shown any of the five other summary statistics.
A community-based intervention to support IDM for prostate cancer screening can increase knowledge and may promote more active involvement in decision making about prostate cancer screening. Such an approach can increase knowledge and may promote more active involvement in decision making about prostate cancer screening.
This pilot study confirms that the implementation of PIES within a clinical practice is feasible and acceptable to patients with a recent diagnosis of prostate cancer. PIES improved key decision-making process variables and reduced the emotional impact of a difficult medical decision.
This study demonstrated that a complicated discussion of risks/benefits of two vaccines and their schedules of administration could be communicated effectively via a videotaped presentation. In addition, the videotape was more effective than VIS alone in increasing short-term knowledge, regardless of practice type, race/ethnicity, or educational level. As immunization schedules increase in complexity and parents are asked to make more choices, videotaped information may be a better method to achieve the goal of truly informed consent.
With the current intervention, service providers can offer risk reduction for men arguably at the highest risk for HIV infection in the United States. Addressing risks associated with serosorting in a feasible, low-cost intervention has the potential to significantly affect the HIV epidemic.
These clinicians were able to acquire the skills to implement SDM competences and to use risk communication aids. Each intervention provided independent effects. Further progress towards greater patient involvement in health care decision making is possible, and skill development in this area should be incorporated into postgraduate professional development programmes.
This pilot study was an essential step in the design of the decision aids and in establishing their acceptability and feasibility. In general, participating women viewed the decision aids as a welcome addition to routine antenatal care. A randomized trial has been conducted to establish the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the decision aids.
The touch screen seemed to convey no benefit over well prepared leaflets in improving understanding of prenatal tests among the pregnant women. It did, however, seem to reduce levels of anxiety and may be most effective for providing information to selected women who have a relevant adverse history or abnormal results from tests in their current pregnancy.
To help avoid, or at least prepare women for the likelihood of increased anxiety following a screen-positive MSS result, and help prepare them for decision making, it is important to target MSS counselling to the individuality of the patient, and address these factors before MSS is undertaken.
The evidence supports the conclusion that the WW intervention added benefit to traditional care for depression. No placebo comparison group was included and the WW+TAU participants received slightly more attention (a supportive telephone contact, ≤ 5 min from a psychologist 2 weeks after receiving the program). Overall, the findings add support to the accumulating evidence for the potential clinical benefit of computer-assisted behavioral health interventions.
Women improved the accuracy of their responses to questions about the benefits and harms of mammography after seeing the videos, but this change was not affected by the framing of information. Women strongly perceived that the benefits of mammography outweighed the harms, and providing accurate information had no effect on these perceptions, regardless of how it was framed.
The patients' treatment preferences for long-term vs short-term survival benefits were influenced by the amounts of verbal explanation provided to them about five-year survival graphs summarizing treatment results. The patients appeared to minimize the importance of medium-range data when those data were not specifically pointed out to them.
In this study, providing timely information to clinical questions had a highly positive impact on decision-making and a high approval rating from participants. Using a librarian to respond to clinical questions may allow primary care professionals to have more time in their day, thus potentially increasing patient access to care. Such services may reduce costs through decreasing the need for referrals, further tests, and other courses of action.
Providing customized decision support to physicians and/or patients did not improve quality or safety of diabetes care and worsened A1C control in patients with baseline A1C >or=8%. Future researchers should consider providing point-of-care decision support with redesign of office systems and/or incentives to increase appropriate actions in response to decision-support information.
There appears to be no additional benefits in terms of patient outcomes by allowing patients to choose whether they want additional audiovisual information. We suggest that all patients undergoing colonoscopy would benefit from watching such an educational video in the week before their procedure.
This study illustrates the important impact of medical decision aids on treatment choices, particularly for patients for whom treatment has little benefit. In the case of adjuvant therapy for breast cancer, providing individualized, evidence-based risk information for shared decision making resulted in fewer women with low tumor severity choosing adjuvant treatment.
Decision-making interventions, comprised of two tailored print interventions (booklet and newsletter), delivered a year apart, with or without two tailored telephone calls, significantly increased knowledge and accuracy of perceived breast cancer risk at 12 and 24 months post-intervention. The effect on mammography use was significant in bivariate relationships but had a much more modest impact in multivariate analyses.
This study showed that a decision aid made a difference in the choice of whether or not to take AT. The decision aid allowed patients and physicians to consider the benefits of AT in an easy to understand format. Treatment decisions were more individualized for patients in the intervention than in the control group. The use of the decision aid was acceptable to both patients and physicians.
Expected benefit from treatment is a key variable in understanding patient behavior. A small number of women refuse adjuvant treatment associated with large increases in predicted survival, even when they are explicitly informed about the degree of benefit they would forgo. Investigation of the effects of decision aids on cancer survival is unlikely to be fruitful due to power considerations.
Ultrasonography is valued for non-medical reasons and chosen even by fully informed people who eschew prenatal diagnosis. The offer of extra information has no overall adverse effects on anxiety and reduces uptake of blood tests when background uptake rate is high (but not when it is already low). High uptake of prenatal blood tests suggests compliant behaviour and need for more information.
Cardiovascular prevention spread over two consultations with use of a decision support tool for patients is not easily applicable for GPs. However, based on the findings of good patients' responsiveness, we recommend further development and implementation of decision support tools in primary care.
Discussions leading to clinical decisions in these primary care settings did not fulfill the criteria considered integral to informed decision making. Physicians frequently described the nature of the decision, less frequently discussed risks and benefits, and rarely assessed the patient's understanding of the decision.
Informed decision making among this group of primary care physicians and surgeons was often incomplete. This deficit was present even when criteria for informed decision making were tailored to expect less extensive discussion for decisions of lower complexity. These findings signal the need for efforts to encourage informed decision making in clinical practice.
Patients' baseline level of knowledge of outcome probabilities is an important variable that explains the heterogeneity of effects of decision aids on improving accuracy of this knowledge. Greater relative effects are observed when the baseline proportion of patients with accurate knowledge is lower. This may indicate that decision aids are more effective in populations with lower knowledge.
Findings justify not only continued but expanded research efforts in this area that would incorporate recommended changes in research design and implementation. PRACTICE AND RESEARCH IMPLICATIONS: Assessment strategies and match interventions are discussed that, if evidence continues to be supportive, might routinely optimize patient-physician encounters toward more positive outcomes. Methodological guidelines are suggested that can improve future preference-match studies of the patient-physician interaction. Practitioners need to consider adoption of patient-match assessment and intervention strategies in addition to recent exclusive concentrations on patient-centered and shared decision-making approaches.
Personal uncertainty of patients and physicians is influenced not only by their respective deficits but also by the deficits of the other member of the dyad. Our results indicate that the more unclear the expression of their own values and the more they perceive that an ineffective choice had been made, the more both physicians and patients experience personal uncertainty. They also indicate that the less uninformed they feel, the more both physicians and patients experience personal uncertainty.
Decision aids improve knowledge, reduce decisional conflict, and stimulate patients to be more active in decision making without increasing their anxiety. Decision aids have little effect on satisfaction and a variable effect on decisions. The effects on outcomes of decisions (persistence with choice, quality of life) remain uncertain.
In children with DS, palatal plate therapy between 6 and 48 months of age in connection with speech and language intervention had a positive effect on occlusion, oral motor function, facial expression and speech. No harmful effects were observed. Although this is a valuable method, however, it must be emphasized that palatal plate therapy puts additional demands on already burdened children and their caretakers.
Constraints upon clinicians make it difficult for them to convert research findings to practice. In particular, assessments that allow more individualized and targeted interventions appear little used. Clinicians are aware of research but there is a danger that clinical practice and research are diverging.
Insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of OMEs to produce effects on speech was found in the research literature. Discussion is largely confined to a consideration of the need for more well-designed studies using well-described participant groups and alternative bases for evidence-based practice.
ECE is not as accurate as EGD in the diagnosis of esophageal varices and red markings or in grading esophageal varices. Moreover, ECE had poor accuracy in grading portal hypertensive gastropathy and detecting ulcers, gastric varices, and other significant upper gastrointestinal lesions. It took significantly longer to perform ECE and interpret the results than for EGD. These findings do not support ECE as a preferred tool for screening esophageal varices and HRVLs.
Methodology was often insufficient. Agreement is often measured under biased conditions. Some areas were not or were rarely studied, e.g., biology and ultrasound. The agreement and QUAS were often poor, suggesting the need for studies with improved observation and methodological quality of agreement.
There was a small but significant benefit of high-frequency oscillatory ventilation in terms of the pulmonary outcome for very-low-birth-weight infants without an increase in the occurrence of other complications of premature birth.
When used early with a lung recruitment strategy, HFOV after surfactant replacement resulted in clinical outcomes consistent with a reduction in both acute and chronic lung injury. Benefit was evident for preterm infants both less than or equal to 1 kg and more than 1 kg. In addition, early HFOV treatment may have had a more global effect on patient health throughout the hospitalization, resulting in reduced morbidity and decreased health care cost.
The results obtained with high-frequency oscillatory ventilation and conventional ventilation do not differ significantly in the early treatment of respiratory disease in very preterm infants. Assessment of long-term effects will require additional follow-up.
In a randomized trial involving children who had been born extremely prematurely, those who had undergone HFOV, as compared with those who had received conventional ventilation, had superior lung function at 11 to 14 years of age, with no evidence of poorer functional outcomes. (Funded by the National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment Programme and others.).
Contrary to our initial concern about the increased rate of severe intraventricular hemorrhage in the high-frequency ventilation group, these data suggest that early use of high-frequency ventilation, compared with conventional ventilation, may be associated with a better neuromotor outcome. Because of the small number of patients studied and the absence of any explanation for this finding, we can conclude only that high-frequency oscillatory ventilation is not associated with a poorer neuromotor outcome.
HFOV, when applied early and when the clinical strategy of maintenance of optimal lung volume is used, improves oxygenation in the acute stage of RDS, reduces the need of surfactant administration, and can decrease the injury to lung tissue even in extremely immature newborns to whom surfactant is administered therapeutically.
We found that high-frequency oscillatory ventilation in very low birth weight infants without antenatal glucocorticoid prophylaxis reduced the need of ventilatory support, surfactant therapy, and reintubation, and shortened neonatal intensive care unit and hospital stay, thus reducing unit and hospital costs. These data would support the usefulness of first intention high-frequency oscillatory ventilation strategy in managing in a selected population, such as very low birth weight newborns complicated by severe respiratory distress syndrome not antenatally treated with glucocorticoids.
After CXL, more topographic flattening occurs in eyes with centrally located cones and the least flattening effect occurs when the cone is located peripherally. This cone-location effect is found in eyes with both keratoconus and ectasia.
Collagen crosslinking was effective in improving UDVA, CDVA, the maximum K value, and the average K value. Keratoconus patients had more improvement in topographic measurements than patients with ectasia. Both CDVA and maximum K value worsened between baseline and 1 month, followed by improvement between 1, 3, and 6 months and stabilization thereafter.
The results of the Siena Eye Cross Study showed a long-term stability of keratoconus after cross-linking without relevant side effects. The uncorrected visual acuity and best spectacle-corrected visual acuity improvements were supported by clinical, topographic, and wavefront modifications induced by the treatment.
Stable BCVA, spherical equivalent, anterior and posterior corneal curvatures, and corneal elevation 1 year after crosslinking indicate that keratoconus did not progress. Unchanged lens density and foveal thickness suggest that the lens and macula were not affected after UVA exposure during crosslinking.
Changes in a small subset of investigator-derived variables suggested an increase in corneal bending resistance after CXL. However, the magnitudes of these changes were low and not commensurate with the degree of clinical improvement or prior computational estimates of corneal stiffening in the same cohort over the same period. Available air-puff-derived measures of the corneal deformation response underestimate the biomechanical changes produced by CXL.
This prospective IVCM study revealed complete loss of the sub-basal nerve plexus and loss of anterior stromal keratocytes in the early postoperative period, with complete regeneration of the sub-basal nerve plexus and keratocyte repopulation by 12 months postoperatively. The posterior stroma and corneal endothelium were unaffected.
Topographic indices indicate corneal flattening after CXL in the long term. Monitoring keratoconus index and index of height asymmetry should be the preferred choice in daily clinical practice because changes in values of these indices are independent from initial corneal thickness.
Results indicate that corneal collagen cross-linking using riboflavin and ultraviolet A is effective as a therapeutic option in cases of progressive keratoconus by reducing the corneal curvature and by improving the visual acuity in these patients.
Our results confirm the role of cone eccentricity with respect to the improvement of corneal curvature following CXL. Visual acuity outcome can be predicted accurately based on pretreatment visual acuity. Age, sex, and K(max) are debated as independent factors for predicting the outcome of treating keratoconus with CXL.
These studies suggest that as keratoconus progresses, the PG content of the stroma increases, whereas fibril diameter is reduced. The altered stromal content of PGs may influence CF diameters and their organization in keratoconus, weakening lateral cohesion and resulting in significant disorder of CF packing.
The HPLC quantitative study showed that stromal concentrations of riboflavin increased with exposure time only if the epithelium was removed. A theoretically safe and effective riboflavin concentration of 15 microg/g was obtained for ultraviolet A-induced CXL only after the epithelium was removed and after at least 10 minutes of riboflavin application every 2 minutes.
Corneal hysteresis and corneal resistance factor values were not statistically different among the groups; however, a trend for lower values was found for keratoconus and fellow eyes compared to controls. Data should be interpreted with caution because of the small sample.
Asians were significantly more likely to present with keratoconus. The Asian patients were mostly of Northern Pakistani origin. This community has a tradition of consanguineous, especially first-cousin marriages. The higher incidence in this population was highly suggestive of a genetic factor being significant in the aetiology. The incidence was higher than revealed by previous studies. Atopic disease was significantly less common in Asians compared to white people, supporting the theory of a different aetiology in these patients.
Complete removal of the corneal epithelium is an essential component of riboflavin-UVA crosslinking therapy as superficial epithelial trauma and tetracaine administration alone are not sufficient to permit the penetration of riboflavin into the corneal stroma. Failure to achieve adequate stromal absorption of riboflavin may impair the efficacy of the crosslinking process.
CXL in thin corneas with minimum corneal thickness less than 400 μm after epithelial removal seems to result in a significant endothelial cell density decrease postoperatively. This finding was not related to other intraoperative or postoperative complications.
High-resolution Fourier-domain OCT mapped corneal epithelial thickness with good repeatability in both normal and keratoconic eyes. Keratoconus was characterized by apical epithelial thinning. The resulting deviation from the normal epithelial pattern could be detected with very high accuracy using the PSD variable.
The development of keratoconus involves a high degree of inter- and probably intralamellar displacement and slippage that leads to thinning of the central cornea and associated changes in corneal curvature. This slippage may be promoted by a loss of cohesive forces and mechanical failure in regions where lamellae bifurcate.
An epithelial doughnut pattern appears to indicate the presence of an underlying stromal cone; the lack of an epithelial doughnut pattern would indicate that an abnormal topography was not due to keratoconus. In very early keratoconus, epithelial compensation can mask the presence of an underlying cone on front surface topography, ie, a diagnosis of keratoconus might be missed.
Rapid UV cross-linking treatment can be regarded as equivalent to the standard procedure in terms of increase in corneal stiffness. The new rapid protocol shortens the treatment duration by more than two thirds, from 30 to 9 minutes. The safety of the higher intensities must be addressed in further clinical studies.
Two years postoperatively, corneal collagen cross-linking appears to be effective in improving uncorrected and best spectacle-corrected visual acuities in eyes with progressive keratoconus by significantly reducing corneal average pupillary power, apical keratometry, and total corneal wavefront aberrations.
Collagen crosslinking may be a new way for stopping the progression of keratectasia in patients with keratoconus. The need for penetrating keratoplasty might then be significantly reduced in keratoconus. Given the simplicity and minimal costs of the treatment, it might also be well-suited for developing countries. Long-term results are necessary to evaluate the duration of the stiffening effect and to exclude long term side-effects.
Collagen crosslinking using riboflavin and UVA leads to a significant increase in corneal collagen diameter. This alteration is the morphologic correlate of the crosslinking process leading to an increase in biomechanical stability. The crosslinking effect is strongest in the anterior half of the stroma because of the rapid decrease in UVA irradiance across the corneal stroma as a result of riboflavin-enhanced UVA absorption.
Baseline findings suggest that keratoconus is not associated with increased risk of connective tissue disease and that most patients in the CLEK Study sample represent mild to moderate keratoconus. Additional follow-up of at least 3 years will provide new information about the progression of keratoconus, identify factors associated with progression, and assess its impact on quality of life.
Patients receiving medical management with naltrexone, CBI, or both fared better on drinking outcomes, whereas acamprosate showed no evidence of efficacy, with or without CBI. No combination produced better efficacy than naltrexone or CBI alone in the presence of medical management. Placebo pills and meeting with a health care professional had a positive effect above that of CBI during treatment. Naltrexone with medical management could be delivered in health care settings, thus serving alcohol-dependent patients who might otherwise not receive treatment.
Treatment with belatacept-based regimens was generally safe for a period of at least 2 years. There was a greater risk of PTLD--specifically CNS PTLD--in the belatacept groups versus cyclosporine, especially in Epstein-Barr virus(-) patients and with the MI dose. The number of deaths and serious infections was lower in the LI regimen versus MI and cyclosporine. The overall safety profile favored the LI over the MI regimen.
In post hoc analysis of patients with PD, patient/graft survival and renal function at 12 months were numerically higher with belatacept versus cyclosporine, but not statistically significant. Further study is necessary to confirm the benefits belatacept may provide in these patients.
These results suggest that belatacept-mediated inhibition of alloresponses involved in transplant rejection correlates with CD86 saturation, indicating that CD86-receptor occupancy may be a valid pharmacodynamic measure of costimulation blockade and provide the first direct clinical evidence that belatacept binds to one of its targets.
Early conversion to a calcineurin inhibitor-free regimen with SRL in combination with mycophenolate mofetil may be a useful strategy to improve renal function. The identification of appropriate candidates and safe management of SRL-related adverse events will be a key to avoid the high rate of dropouts, which currently limit the broad applicability of this protocol.
Belatacept, an investigational selective costimulation blocker, did not appear to be inferior to cyclosporine as a means of preventing acute rejection after renal transplantation. Belatacept may preserve the glomerular filtration rate and reduce the rate of chronic allograft nephropathy.
The occurrence of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events after successful renal transplantation not only relates to baseline cardiovascular risk factors present at transplantation, but also to immunosuppressive drugs and posttransplantation traditional and nontraditional risk factors.
The results suggest that a relatively brief intervention of 8 psychoeducational sessions with systematic family involvement in simultaneous groups can considerably improve the treatment of schizophrenia. Psychoeducation should be routinely offered to all patients with schizophrenia and their families.
Techniques appropriate for educating schizophrenic patients were discussed, and the value of involving patients in education emphasised. A series of patient education sessions is needed to consolidate learning, rather than a single informing process. The strong association between impaired learning and more severe negative schizophrenic syndrome emphasises the need for responsible prescribing of antipsychotic treatment in schizophrenia.
Although family psychoeducation has been tested in a wide range of Anglo-Saxon settings, there remains need to assess outcomes more internationally. Effective family interventions for people with schizophrenia probably require continued administration of key-elements or ongoing informal support to deal with the vicissitudes of illnesses.
In rural China, family intervention should focus on improving the relatives' recognition of illness, the caring attitude towards the patients, treatment compliance, relapse prevention, and the training of the patients' social functioning. This trial, one of the largest in the literature, has shown that psychoeducational family intervention is effective and suitable for psychiatric rehabilitation in Chinese rural communities.
The ongoing trial evaluates whether a non-invasive psychosocial approach can significantly enhance functional outcomes and prevent the ultra high risk patients from developing psychosis. The results will provide an important stepping stone in the movement of the field from refining early detection strategies to developing efficacious preventative treatments.
The SDS is easy to administer and can differentiate between patients with major depression and those with other psychiatric diagnoses. It can be modified to fit local idiom in an Eskimo community. The SDS shows promise as a clinically relevant screening tool for major depression in populations with limited access to psychiatric care.
Women who received a single dose of nevirapine to prevent perinatal transmission of HIV-1 had higher rates of virologic failure with subsequent nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy than did women without previous exposure to nevirapine. However, this applied only when nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy was initiated within 6 months after receipt of a single, peripartum dose of nevirapine. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In this phase 1-2 trial involving HIV-1-infected children, an age of three months or younger at the initiation of therapy and treatment with stavudine, lamivudine, nevirapine, and nelfinavir were associated with improved long-term viral suppression. Larger, randomized trials are required to define the optimal time to initiate therapy and the optimal regimen for these infants.
This epidemiological observation could stimulate virologic studies to elucidate whether this rapid progression depends on in utero infection or transmission of resistant virus. Findings may suggest a need to hasten HIV-1 diagnosis in infants of ZDV-treated mothers and undertake an aggressive antiretroviral therapy in those found to be infected.
MTCT was reduced by sd-NVP through an effect on IP transmission. Where MTCT occurred despite NVP, two-thirds of transmissions arose IU; IP-infected babies were born to mothers with very high viral load. Disease progression was particularly rapid, 85% infants meeting WHO criteria for ART within 6 months. These findings argue for more effective MTCT-prevention programmes in resource-limited countries.
The high rate, types, and early archiving of drug-resistant HIV-1 suggests that resistance testing be considered for infants, especially when an NNRTI-based regimen is planned. Furthermore, drug-resistance outcomes in infants should be an important secondary end point in MTCT trials.
All three needle sizes are safe for use in renal allograft biopsy using a semiautomated biopsy gun. The larger needles provide more tissue and glomeruli and, thus, are more diagnostically useful. Use of a 14G needle may be associated with more pain, and the 16G needle appears to offer the best compromise between diagnostic usefulness and patient acceptability.
Development of self-regulatory capacities through ad lib feeding experience was indicated by infant regulation of the volume of intake by the caloric density of the formula, an unexpected finding. Furthermore, the approach of the caloric intake of infants on the ad lib regimen to that of infants on the prescribed regimen suggests they had gained skill in regulating intake with experience. Whether or not the trend for similar intakes would continue beyond 5 days is a question for further study.
Significant development of infant behaviors occurs over the preterm period but involves changes not only in the absolute percentage of each behavior but also in the percentages within each sleeping and waking state. Thus, preterm infant behaviors cannot be used clinically for assessment without consideration of the state in which they occur.
Clinically stable well-developing preterm infants beyond their initial period of intensive care show interstitial glucose instabilities exceeding values as low as 2.5 mmol/L and as high as 8.3 mmol/L. This novel observation may play an important role for the susceptibility of these high-risk infants for the development of the metabolic syndrome.
The barriers to good-quality healthcare are common for pregnant women, newborns and children; thus, interventions targeted to address them will have uniform beneficial effects. Adopting the identified facilitators would help countries strengthen their health systems and ensure high-quality care for all.
Administration of calf lung surfactant extract, calfactant, appears to be safe and is associated with rapid improvement in oxygenation, earlier extubation, and decreased requirement for intensive care in children with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure. Further study is needed, however, before widespread use in pediatric respiratory failure can be recommended.
Calfactant acutely improved oxygenation and significantly decreased mortality in infants, children, and adolescents with ALI although no significant decrease in the course of respiratory failure measured by duration of ventilator therapy, intensive care unit, or hospital stay was observed.
VLBW and LBW infants are at increased risk of dying with bronchiolitis, even when taking into account other risk factors. Although infants weighing <2500 g at birth are at increased risk for dying with bronchiolitis, the majority of bronchiolitis deaths occur among infants of normal birth weight.
Mortality rates due to all respiratory illnesses in children have fallen markedly in the last three decades. This decline has been more rapid than the overall decline in childhood mortality and respiratory diseases are now responsible for a smaller proportion of deaths in children. These data could provide a foundation for assessing the impact on mortality of future health initiatives such as the introduction of a universal pneumococcal vaccination programme in England and Wales.
Results indicate a high and rising prevalence of anti-TB drug resistance among children in the Western Cape, which suggests ongoing transmission of drug-resistant strains within the community. Improved control of TB in adults, including early identification and treatment of drug-resistant cases, is necessary to reduce transmission to children.
Oxygen supplementation is the prime determinant of the length of hospitalization for infants with bronchiolitis. Infants remaining in the hospital for oxygen supplementation once feeding difficulties had resolved did not experience deterioration to the extent of needing PICU support.
RSV infection is associated with substantial morbidity in U.S. children in both inpatient and outpatient settings. Most children with RSV infection were previously healthy, suggesting that control strategies targeting only high-risk children will have a limited effect on the total disease burden of RSV infection.
Oral cavity pressure can estimate the level of continuous positive airway pressure. Continuous positive airway pressure generated with heated, humidified, high-flow nasal cannula treatment depends on the flow rate and weight. Only in the smallest infants with the highest flow rates, with the mouth fully closed, can clinically significant but unpredictable levels of continuous positive airway pressure be achieved. We conclude that heated, humidified high-flow nasal cannula should not be used as a replacement for delivering continuous positive airway pressure.
Bronchiolitis admissions cost more than 500 million dollars annually. A codiagnosis of bronchiolitis and pneumonia almost doubles the cost of the hospitalization. Inpatient health care costs of bronchiolitis are higher than estimated previously and highlight the need for initiatives to safely reduce bronchiolitis hospitalizations and thereby decrease health care costs.
During 1980-1996, rates of hospitalization of infants with bronchiolitis increased substantially, as did the proportion of total and lower respiratory tract hospitalizations associated with bronchiolitis. Annual bronchiolitis hospitalizations associated with RSV infection among infants may be greater than previous estimates for RSV bronchiolitis and pneumonia hospitalizations combined.
We have found no association between maternal prenatal protein-energy supplementation and offspring blood pressure in adolescence amongst rural Gambians. We found some evidence to suggest that offspring body composition may interact with the effect of maternal supplementation on blood pressure.
The provision of FFS to pregnant women resulted in higher birth length than did MMN supplementation. For women with a suboptimal prepregnancy nutritional status, MMN supplementation should be complemented with a balanced energy and protein supplement to produce a clinical effect on birth size. The trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
In this undernourished population, integrated delivery of supplemental nutrition with other public health programmes in pregnancy and early childhood was associated with a more favourable profile of cardiovascular disease risk factors in adolescence. This pragmatic study provides the most robust evidence to date on this important hypothesis for which classic trials are unlikely. Improved maternal and child nutrition may have a role in reducing the burden of cardiovascular disease in low income and middle income countries.
A daily snack providing additional green leafy vegetables, fruit, and milk before conception and throughout pregnancy had no overall effect on birth weight. Per-protocol and subgroup analyses indicated a possible increase in birth weight if the mother was supplemented ≥ 3 mo before conception and was not underweight. This trial was registered at www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn/ as ISRCTN62811278.
Well-being in pregnancy was independently and positively associated with education and physical activity and negatively associated with low GI dietary intervention. These findings have significance not only for women at risk of low mood but also for healthcare professionals when counselling women about the importance of healthy lifestyle in pregnancy.
Low GI dietary interventions in pregnancy result in improved health-behaviours and continued reported compliance at 3 months postpartum possibly through lower dietary GL as a result of portion control. Greater levels of weight loss from pre-pregnancy to 3 months postpartum in the intervention group may have important positive implications for overweight and obesity.
Several maternal diet and lifestyle factors were associated with neonatal anthropometry . Low glycaemic index dietary intervention in pregnancy was found to have a beneficial effect on neonatal central adiposity. Additionally, central adiposity was positively associated with maternal dietary fat intake and postprandial glucose highlighting the important role of healthy diet in pregnancy in promoting normal neonatal adiposity.
Dietary and lifestyle interventions in pregnancy can reduce maternal gestational weight gain and improve outcomes for both mother and baby. Among the interventions, those based on diet are the most effective and are associated with reductions in maternal gestational weight gain and improved obstetric outcomes.
Gestational weight gain is associated with some infant and maternal outcomes. One weight gain recommendation for all women is not supported by the evidence identified in this review. To understand fully the impact of gestational weight gain on short- and long-term outcomes for women and their offspring will require that researchers use consistent definitions of weight gain during pregnancy, better address confounders in their analyses, improve study designs and statistical models, and conduct studies with longer followup.
The results suggest that BPT may be an effective treatment option for patients with chronic depression. Difficulty recruiting and subsequent attrition was one of the limitations, but the findings merit further trials with larger samples and process studies to identify the precise therapeutic mechanisms.
Mindfulness-based meditation therapy may be effective for anxiety and depression in Japanese cancer patients, and spiritual well-being is related to anxiety and depression, growth, and pain. The negative correlation of spirituality with growth differs from the results of previous studies and the mechanism of this effect needs to be investigated further.
Group exercise can be delivered to care home residents with reduced mobility but it is not suitable for residents with severe cognitive impairment. An estimated sample size of 240 participants would be required to detect a clinically significant difference in the Rivermead Mobility Index with 90% power.
A range of cost-effective interventions for episodes of major depression exists and is currently underutilized. Maintenance treatment strategies are required to significantly reduce the burden of depression, but the cost of long-term drug treatment for the large number of depressed people is high if SSRIs are the drug of choice. Key policy issues with regard to expanded provision of CBT concern the availability of suitably trained providers and the funding mechanisms for therapy in primary care.
Multiple, practical questionnaires with reasonable performance characteristics are available to help clinicians identify and diagnose patients with major depression. Diagnostic confirmation by mental health care professionals using a clinical interview or by primary care physicians using a semistructured interview can be made with high reliability.
The negligible difference between the HRI and HRB groups implies that intensifying prevention produced practically no additional benefit. By offering all children only basic prevention, virtually the same preventive effect could have been obtained with substantially less effort and lower costs.
To treat caries with the traditional method of restorative dentistry is beyond the financial capabilities of the majority of low-income nations, as three-quarters of these countries do not even have sufficient resources to finance an essential package of health care services for their children.
The findings of the present study suggest that the use of vitamins C and E in women with PPROM is associated with a longer latency period before delivery. Moreover, adverse neonatal and maternal outcomes, which are often associated with prolonged latency periods, were similar between the groups.
Consumption of red palm oil increases concentrations of alpha- and beta-carotene in both breast milk and serum and maintains breast-milk retinol concentrations. Sunflower oil consumption seems to conserve breast-milk retinol similarly to consumption of red palm oil. Breast-milk retinol might be maintained through increased dietary intake of these vegetable oils and use of mild cooking preparation methods (such as the addition of oil at the end of cooking and avoidance of frying).
Patients who have less general education have less knowledge of epilepsy. The introduction of a nurse specialist in epilepsy is associated with a significant increase in patient reports that enough advice has been provided. Nurse intervention appears to help those with the least knowledge of epilepsy improve their knowledge scores.
Patients with partial epilepsy have more frequent and prominent anxiety symptoms than patients with generalized epilepsy, and also more than the control group. All these findings clearly indicate the necessity to modify treatment strategies accordingly in order to include both the antiepileptic therapy and treatment for anxiety disorders.
TEA is associated with accelerated loss of new information and impaired remote autobiographical memory. There are a number of possible explanations including ongoing subclinical ictal activity, medial temporal lobe damage as a result of seizure, or subtle ischaemic pathology. Future analyses should seek to clarify the relationship between aetiology, seizure frequency, and degree of memory impairment.
The comprehensive neuropsychological study of 38 TLE patients showed that this neurologic condition affects remote memory systems differently. We discuss the different factors that could account for this pattern of performance on the bases of both functional brain organization and memory theories.
These results suggest that supplementation of the diet with aged garlic extract may enhance immune cell function and that this may be responsible, in part, for reduced severity of colds and flu.
The results suggest that this garlic powder preparation may be of some clinical use in subjects with mild hypertension. However, there is still insufficient evidence to recommend it as a routine clinical therapy for the treatment of hypertensive subjects. More-rigorously designed and analysed trials are needed.
In addition to health enhancement, specific herbs are commonly used to treat a range of medical conditions, without clear evidence of efficacy. Concurrent use of herbal and conventional medicine is relatively common and the majority of herbal medicine users are not aware of potential adverse effects. It appears that medical practitioners could exert significant influence on their patients' decisions about herbal medicine use.
Most countries have not yet reported cases of infant botulism. This limited reporting of the disease to date contrasts with the known global occurrence of Clostridium botulinum spores in soils and dust and suggests that infant botulism may be under-recognized, underreported, or both. When bulbar palsies, hypotonia, and weakness are present, physicians should consider the possibility of infant botulism even if the patient has not been fed honey. Publication of additional case reports and surveillance summaries will enhance understanding of the occurrence and extent of this under-recognized disease.
Although botulism is rare in Australia, clinicians should be aware of the clinical presentation and the rapidity of confirmation of the diagnosis by electrophysiological testing. Patients should be nursed in an intensive care setting. Regular testing of vital capacity should be performed to determine the need for mechanical ventilation.
Antimicrobial use, with regard to both individual use and total antimicrobial consumption in the community, is strongly associated with nasopharyngeal carriage of penicillin resistant pneumococci in children. Control measures to reduce the prevalence of penicillin resistant pneumococci should include reducing the use of antimicrobials in community health care.
Among children with AOM, the proportion of cases due to non-PCV7 serogroups increased, vaccine-related serotypes increased, and serotype 19F remained unchanged. Although a decrease in the proportion of cases due to PNSP occurred among children who required myringotomy and/or tympanostomy tube placement, the proportion of PNSP remained unchanged overall and among children with spontaneous drainage. Because future trends in the susceptibility patterns of pneumococcal isolates recovered from children with AOM are not easy to predict, continued surveillance is essential.
New candidate vaccines against otitis media have the potential to prevent millions of disease episodes in the United States annually. If priced comparably with other recently introduced vaccines, these new otitis vaccines could achieve cost-effectiveness comparable with or more favorable than that of the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine produces a significant effect regarding prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease. Results on prevention of otitis or pneumonia have been less striking, but considering the high burden of these diseases in infants, even a low efficacy has potential for tremendous impact on the health of infants in developing and industrialized countries.
The administration of conjugate vaccines at least twice also after 2 years of age may be mandatory for reducing the carriage of conjugate vaccine serotypes in children with recurrent AOM. Polysaccharide booster vaccination did not affect nasopharyngeal colonization with serotypes not included in the conjugate vaccine.
Acute otitis media-related health care utilization and associated antibiotic prescriptions for privately insured young children decreased more than expected (on the basis of efficacy estimates in prelicensure clinical trials) after the introduction of routine 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine immunization. Although other factors, such as clinical practice guidelines to reduce antibiotic use, might have contributed to the observed trend, 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine may play an important role in reducing the burden of acute otitis media, resulting in substantial savings in medical care costs.
The use of hypotonic fluids increases the risk of hyponatremia when compared with isotonic fluids at 24 hrs following infusion (number needed to harm [confidence interval 95%] = 7[4;25]). In our sample, the use of isotonic fluids did not increase the incidence of adverse events compared with hypotonic fluids.
Hypotonic maintenance fluids increase the incidence of hyponatraemia because they decrease blood sodium levels in normonatraemic patients. IT maintenance fluids do not increase the incidence of dysnatraemias and should be considered as the standard maintenance fluids.
When administered at the appropriate maintenance rate and accompanied by adequate volume expansion with isotonic fluids, 0.45% saline did not result in a drop in serum sodium during the first 12 hours of fluid therapy in children without severe baseline hyponatremia. Confirmation in a larger study is strongly recommended.
  The majority of US paediatric residents would prescribe hypotonic mIVF in disease states associated with AVP excess. However, a significant number of residents are using isotonic mIVF. Isotonic fluids are more likely to be prescribed in older children and children with meningitis.
alpha is normal in children with CF. One gram calcium and/or 2,000 IU D(3) does not change alpha or increase 25-OHD, serum calcium, or mineralization. Longer trials of a significantly higher dose of vitamin D(3) shown to increase serum 25-OHD are needed to assess effects on mineral metabolism and bone mass accrual. However, study of therapeutic options other than calcium and vitamin D should be encouraged.
Treatment with IVIG before loss of unaided walking did not give rise to a less severe course, but recovery occurred somewhat faster. However, given the small number of patients, the power of this conclusion is low. For treatment after loss of unaided walking, there was no significant difference in the effectiveness of 2 g/kg IVIG administered over 2 days versus 5 days. Early "relapses" occurred more frequently after the shorter treatment regimen.
Univariate analysis indicate that APS, a high number of AEDs used prior to surgery, and pathological postoperative EEG are possible predictors of seizure recurrence after epilepsy surgery. Only gender retained significance in the multivariate analysis.
Tailored resection in temporomesial LGTs was associated with excellent seizure outcome, indicating that an adequate presurgical evaluation including extensive neurophysiological evaluation (long-term videoelectroencephalography monitoring) to plan appropriate surgical strategy is advised.
Considering the natural history of CCMs, the favorable neurologic and seizure outcome, surgical resection of CCMs should be considered in all patients with supratentorial CCMs and concomitant epilepsy, irrespective of the presence or absence of predictors for a favorable seizure outcome.
In this series of adult patients with intractable epilepsy and FCD, a significant number have other seizure risk factors, normal neurological examinations and neuroimaging, and regional EEG findings. Dual pathology was common in patients with FCD. FCD should be considered as an etiology of epilepsy even in patients whose evaluation suggests other mechanisms.
The results of this series demonstrate that MSTs can be performed with acceptable morbidity in children undergoing epilepsy surgery. The precise role of MSTs in controlling seizure frequency and outcome, especially when combined with planned cortical resections, awaits further study.
Surgery is a valuable option for children with drug-resistant focal epilepsies which may provide excellent results in a considerable amount of cases. Since results of surgery for epilepsy strongly depend on the presurgical identification of the Epileptogenic Zone, future work should be focused on refinement and implementation of diagnostic strategies.
We conclude that cortical resection often benefits very young children with catastrophic partial seizures, but does not guarantee enhanced neurological development. The location and extent of the excised cortex may not be critical as long as the entire epileptogenic region and lesion are removed.
Epilepsy surgery outcomes in the U.S. military are similar to those reported from nonmilitary centers, with the majority of patients experiencing seizure remission and improvements in quality-of-life measures. Complete seizure remission after successful anterior temporal lobectomy enables some active duty military members to continue service in the U.S. Armed Forces.
Compared to other combinations of test results, concordance of MRI and interictal EEG is most closely associated with surgical outcome in MBTLE. However, most selected patients have pathologic confirmation of MTS regardless of test results or outcome. This information may be useful for planning the presurgical evaluation of patients with medically intractable MBTLE.
Results of surgery for TLE with mainly limited resections are promising in patients older than 50 years and older 60 years, despite the long seizure history. As expected, the risk of complications is somewhat higher compared with that in a younger control group. The impact of low neuropsychological performance is a concern.
Complete resection of FCD results in good seizure outcome in a majority of children. When conducted in conjunction with incomplete cortical resection, MSTs do not improve seizure outcome in patients with FCD. Focal cortical dysplasia located outside of eloquent cortex and complete excision of the lesion are the most important predictors of seizure outcome.
Improved technology and surgical procedures along with changes in clinical practice were likely factors linked with enhanced and sustained seizure-free outcomes in the post-1997 series. These findings support the general concept that clearer identification of lesions and complete resection are linked with better outcomes in pediatric epilepsy surgery patients.
Strictly unifocal, interictal epileptiform patterns on scalp EEG, though seen in a minority of subjects, may be an important, independent factor in evaluating subjects with intractable extratemporal, localization-related epilepsy for surgical therapy. This finding is highly predictive of both ictal onsets and successful postsurgical outcome.
Our findings demonstrate that excisional surgery is successful in the majority of children with nonlesional partial epilepsy. A multimodal integrative approach can minimize the size of resection and alleviate the need for invasive EEG monitoring. Focal interictal spikes and completeness of resection predict good outcome. The benefits of surgery are long-lasting.
The perioperative morbidity and seizure outcome following epilepsy surgery was independent of the patient's body weight. However, long-term mortality was significantly increased in the individuals with extreme obesity. The effect of morbid obesity on long-term quality of life after epilepsy surgery may need to be considered in selecting operative candidates.
Our study shows that there is a strong tendency for patients with severe pathologic features to have MRI abnormalities, and patients with incomplete resection, mild pathologic features, or the presence of secondary tonic clonic seizures have a high chance of a poorer surgical outcome.
We show that patients with complete resection of epileptogenic area, the presence of dysmorphic neurons or balloon cells on histopathology, or resection of hippocampus have a higher chance of a favorable surgical outcome. We believe that this observation is useful in planning of surgical procedures and predicting the prognoses of individual patients with FCD patients accompanied by HS.
Contralateral propagated ictal discharges, including bitemporal asynchrony and switch of lateralization, unfavorably influence long-term seizure outcome. Long-term seizure control is best when the patient has no such propagation patterns of ictal discharges and is seizure-free during the first 2 years after temporal lobectomy.
Acute postoperative seizures (APOS) occur in 26% children, and the risk is higher after extratemporal cortical resection than hemispherectomy. APOS predict a poor postoperative seizure outcome at 6, 12, and 24 months. This study is useful for counseling families after epilepsy surgery. It also suggests that APOS may not be discounted as "benign" in research studies that evaluate seizure outcomes after epilepsy surgery.
This study indicates that seizure relief and AED use after resective surgery for symptomatic CD and non-CD etiologies was comparable with complex partial TLE cases up to 2 years after surgery. Furthermore, at 5 years after surgery, CD patients had outcomes better than those before surgery, but worse than TLE cases. In young children, these findings support the concept that early removal of symptomatic pathologic substrates is associated with seizure control and reduced AED use, similar to that noted in older TLE cases up to 2 years after surgery. Seizure control may reduce the risk of developing the seizure-related encephalopathy associated with severe symptomatic early-onset childhood epilepsy.
Among the study population, a surgical selection based on a noninvasive evaluation was possible in most patients. The invaluable information resulting from the rigorous noninvasive electroclinical and neuroimaging evaluation can lead to excellent surgical results without the use of invasive, time-consuming, and expensive diagnostic tools. The potential reduction of invasiveness-related risks, complexity, and costs of presurgical investigations should hopefully allow for an increase in the number of children with TLE who will receive surgery, particularly in centers with limited technological resources.
Results of the present study indicated that left-sided TSA for hippocampal sclerosis tends to improve verbal memory function with the preservation of other types of memory function. Moreover, right-sided TSA for hippocampal sclerosis can lead to significant improvement in memory function, with memory improvement observed 1 month after right-sided TSA and persisting 1 year after surgery.
peri-ictal brain SPECT is well able to localize ER in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. Periictal SPECT concordance with ER was as good as video-EEG and MRI and its PPV was as good as that of MRI. We strongly recommend its use in the pre-surgical evaluation of temporal lobe epilepsy, especially when MRI and EEG are discordant.
Complete resection of the MRI- and EEG-defined EZ is the best predictor of seizure freedom, though patients incomplete by EEG or MRI alone have better outcome compared to patients incomplete by both. More than one-third of patients with incomplete resection become SF, with contiguous MRI lesions a predictor of SF outcome.
The seizure-free rate after surgery in children with FCD was 49% in the 1st year; however, it declined thereafter. The running-down phenomenon could be an important mechanism of seizure alleviation for patients with FCD during long-term follow-up. Because a complete resection of FCD has a strong prognostic implication for seizure control, a better method to define the extent of FCD is required to assist with resection, especially in nonlesional epilepsy.
Presurgical identification of unilateral hippocampal formation atrophy, or of interictal epileptiform discharges that are all concordant with the location of ictal onset, predict excellent outcome of ATL. However, the probability of excellent outcome is highest (94%) when both factors are present.
Surgery-induced verbal memory deficits following LTL surgery continue 13 years after surgery. Late, possibly age-related, declines in multiple memory scores are seen in patients with temporal lobe surgery and nonsurgical patients with epilepsy. Patients with LTL surgery may be at risk for a more rapid decline in selective verbal memory skills. Evaluations of treatments for intractable epilepsy that compromise memory functions should consider the further quality of life impact of late age-related memory declines.
The occurrence and localization of interictal and ictal EEG findings differs vastly for lesions in different brain regions. These findings should be used to carefully weigh the results from EEG studies particularly in patients with extratemporal epilepsies considered for epilepsy surgery.
Tailored AMTL is a safe and effective procedure in the treatment of selected patients with medically refractory TLE. Data from preoperative qualitative MRI well correlated with histopathological findings. The presence of unilateral hippocampal atrophy on qualitative MRI was predictive of excellent outcome in the long-term follow up.
The results suggest that quantitative analysis of tCMRgluc with SEF may be helpful in characterizing the preoperative epileptogenic condition and predicting postoperative seizure outcome in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy, although a constellation of developmental brain abnormalities and environmental factors that together produce epilepsy need to be further explored.
Eighty-nine percent (79/89) of our patients benefited from surgery. The following factors were predictive of good outcome: a history of febrile seizures; ictal single photon emission computed tomography showing increased blood flow ipsilateral to the epileptogenic zone; a pathologic diagnosis; and the presence of mesial temporal structures in the resected tissue.
Post-surgical seizure control in the pediatric population is similar to that in adult patients, despite the fact that epilepsies in this age group are more frequently of extratemporal origin, suggesting that surgery should be considered in children as soon as intractability is determined.
Adolescents with TLE had clinical features, electrographic findings, and seizure outcome similar to those observed in adult patients. However, younger children up to 5 years of age had distinct ictal semiology and different etiological, electrophysiological and outcome profiles, clearly suggesting that they behave as a special subgroup within the TLE.
We have identified specific predictive factors that may guide the surgical evaluation of patients with focal cortical dysplasia and intractable epilepsy requiring subdural EEG monitoring. Successful surgical results can be obtained utilizing subdural EEG in carefully selected patients.
Focal lesions and particularly neoplasms are associated with improved postoperative seizure control compared with patients without histopathologic abnormalities. We advise caution in considering surgery to treat extratemporal epilepsy in patients who have normal MRI scans, because the outcome with the approach described in this study is poor in such cases.
Occipital lobe epilepsy is an infrequent but significant cause of extratemporal epilepsy. Satisfactory results (Engel Class I or II) were obtained in 77% of patients in our series. Postoperative visual field deficits occurred in a significant proportion of patients. In the modern MR imaging era, lesions should be investigated in patients with OLE and lesionectomies should be performed early for a better outcome.
Medically intractable epilepsy in children can be treated effectively by surgery. The degree of resection or disconnection of diseased tissue, but not patient age at the time of surgery, is an important factor in achieving epilepsy control. Early surgery is more likely to improve developmental outcome.
Results highlight the importance of taking into account emotional status when assessing memory abilities after ATL. Results replicate the finding of moderate to high frequencies of memory impairment, emotional disturbance, and unemployment both before and after ATL. Results provide support for the rationale that cognitive, psychiatric and vocational interventions are indicated to mitigate the problems that exist before and persist after ATL.
The frequency and type of postoperative seizures are critical determinants for long-term outcome. Seizure semiology may be the clue to a precise diagnosis and long-term prognosis of epilepsy.
Among patients with newly intractable disabling MTLE, resective surgery plus AED treatment resulted in a lower probability of seizures during year 2 of follow-up than continued AED treatment alone. Given the premature termination of the trial, the results should be interpreted with appropriate caution.
(a) Substantial global mental delay is common in young children treated for epilepsy with surgery; (b) In most patients, postoperative development proceeded at a stable velocity; (c) Catch-up development may occur but only in seizure-free patients; (d) Substantial cognitive losses were noted in only one child. and (e) Early seizure control stabilized developmental velocity in this patient cohort.
Surgical treatment is effective and safe for patients with epileptogenic gangliogliomas. Early surgical intervention is necessary for achieving early seizure control. Neither intraoperative ECoG nor IOUS necessarily leads to better seizure control, although the latter can be helpful in achieving complete tumor resection. Simple lesionectomy is sufficient for favorable postoperative seizure outcome.
In the present study, hemispherotomy resulted in freedom from seizures in nearly 78% of patients; worthwhile improvement was demonstrated in all patients. The seizure reduction observed after hemispherotomy was durable over time, with only rare late failure. Bilateral electrographic abnormalities may be predictive of posthemispherotomy recurrent seizures.
After surgery, seizure frequency and developmental quotient improved. Developmental status before surgery predicted developmental function after surgery. Patients who were operated on at younger age and with epileptic spasms showed the largest increase in developmental quotient after surgery.
The results indicate that either surgical approach can be chosen independent of cognitive outcome criteria. Improvement in phonemic fluency after transcortical SAH may reflect selective normalization of cognitive function after epilepsy surgery, whereas frontal lobe manipulation might have hindered recovery of this function after transsylvian SAH.
In this first nationwide analysis of pediatric ITLE, older age and private insurance status independently predicted which children were more likely to receive surgical treatment for ITLE on a national level, whereas sex did not. Black children with ITLE were no less likely to receive surgical intervention than nonblack children. Future nationwide analyses will be required to determine whether these trends for pediatric ITLE surgery remain stable over time.
Morbidity following ATL for TLE is low throughout the United States regardless of sex, race, insurance status, or income. Younger age and private insurance status are independently predictive of reduced postoperative morbidity. In patients with low medical comorbidity, ATL for TLE is safe, with low morbidity and no mortality.
Lesionectomy with adjacent temporal neocortex resection using intraoperative ECoG provided good seizure control of pediatric temporal ganglioglioma. For extratemporal ganglioglioma, lesionectomy alone can provide fairly good seizure control. Considering the memory function of the hippocampus, lesionectomy with adjacent temporal neocortical resection can be a safe, feasible, and effective treatment option for epileptogenic gangliogliomas in pediatric patients.
Our results show that postoperative outcome in patients with multiple CCMs can be as good as in those with single malformations if proper presurgical identification of the epileptogenic CCMs is done. The possibility of the novo appearance of CCMs or dual pathology may occur and may affect long-term outcome negatively.
Although the risk of at least one recurrent seizure after initially successful epilepsy surgery is relatively high, the rate of recurrent intractability is low. The finding that late age at surgery and presence of preoperative GTC seizures are predictors of late recurrence indicates the importance of patient selection and early surgery for persistent seizure control.
Younger children with temporal lobe epilepsy have satisfying surgical outcomes, particularly when MTS is present. Magnetic resonance imaging may not be as sensitive in detecting MTS in children as in older patients. Negative predictors identified include multiple seizure types and preoperative developmental delay. Multifocal or bilateral EEG findings, high preoperative seizure frequency, and MR imaging findings inconsistent with MTS also independently suggested worse outcome.
Control of FLE remains a challenging problem. Favorable seizure outcome, obtained in 62% of patients in this series, is still not as easily obtained in FLE as it is in temporal lobe epilepsy. While no statistically significant predictors of seizure outcome were revealed in this study, patients with FLE continue to require extensive workup and investigation to arrive at a logical and comprehensive neurosurgical treatment plan. Future studies with improved neuroimaging and advanced invasive monitoring strategies may well help define factors for success in this form of epilepsy that is difficult to control.
Early seizure onset in intractable frontal lobe epilepsy is associated with IEDs discordant with seizure focus. Frontal convexity seizure foci are more likely than mesial frontal seizure foci to be associated with concordant discharges.
A focal high-frequency oscillation (> 20 Hz) at seizure onset on iEEG may identify patients with nonlesional extratemporal epilepsy who are likely to have an Engel Class I outcome after epilepsy surgery. The prospect of excellent outcome in nonlesional extratemporal lobe epilepsy prior to intracranial monitoring is poor (14 [27.5%] of 51 patients). However, iEEG can further stratify patients and help identify those with a greater likelihood of Engel Class I outcome after surgery.
The more widespread structural voxel-based morphometry abnormalities and worse IQ performance identified in the negative-family history (FH) group may result from a stronger environmental influence, including initial precipitating injuries. This is further support for the hypothesis that hippocampal sclerosis in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy with positive FH is determined by a stronger genetic predisposition with less influence of environmental factors compared with patients in the negative-FH group.
With independent validation of the findings, we can be reasonably certain that the three factors identified in this analysis are meaningful and generalizable predictors of seizure outcome following epilepsy surgery. Use of predictive models should be considered in future studies to convert study results into clinically relevant statements about a particular patient's likelihood of surgical success.
A single Class I study and 24 Class IV studies indicate that the benefits of anteromesial temporal lobe resection for disabling complex partial seizures is greater than continued treatment with antiepileptic drugs, and the risks are at least comparable. For patients who are compromised by such seizures, referral to an epilepsy surgery center should be strongly considered. Further studies are needed to determine if neocortical seizures benefit from surgery, and whether early surgical intervention should be the treatment of choice for certain surgically remediable epileptic syndromes.
Quality appraisal, a necessary step in systematic reviews, is incomplete in most reviews of prognosis studies. Adequate quality assessment should include judgments about 6 areas of potential study biases. Authors should incorporate these quality assessments into their synthesis of evidence about prognosis.
Apparently conflicting results in the literature may be explained by the methodologic issues identified here (e.g., sample size, selection criteria and method of analysis). To obtain a better understanding of patterns of long-term outcome, increased emphasis on longitudinal analytic methods is required. The systematic review of possible risk factors for seizure recurrence provides a basis for planning further research.
Hippocampal volumetry in controls revealed a linear increase in total hippocampal volumes and a statistically nonsignificant trend toward reduced right larger than left hippocampal ratios between 17 and 83 months old. The tendency for smaller total hippocampal volumes and larger right to left hippocampal volume ratios in children with CFS compared to controls could suggest a developmental abnormality, injury during CFS, or be age-related. The significant hippocampal asymmetry in a single child with CFS suggests that age may not be a factor in every case. Further studies are needed to collect control data in young children as well as prospectively follow children with CFS with serial imaging to better understand the relationship between CFS and the evolution of hippocampal atrophy.
This study to evaluate the safety and adverse-event profile of VX-770 showed that VX-770 was associated with within-subject improvements in CFTR and lung function. These findings provide support for further studies of pharmacologic potentiation of CFTR as a means to treat cystic fibrosis. (Funded by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Ivacaftor was associated with improvements in lung function at 2 weeks that were sustained through 48 weeks. Substantial improvements were also observed in the risk of pulmonary exacerbations, patient-reported respiratory symptoms, weight, and concentration of sweat chloride. (Funded by Vertex Pharmaceuticals and others; VX08-770-102 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In this study, VX-809 had a similar adverse event profile to placebo for 28 days in F508del-CFTR homozygous patients, and demonstrated biological activity with positive impact on CFTR function in the sweat gland. Additional data are needed to determine how improvements detected in CFTR function secondary to VX-809 in the sweat gland relate to those measurable in the respiratory tract and to long-term measures of clinical benefit.
In patients with cystic fibrosis who have premature stop codons, gentamicin can cause translational "read through," resulting in the expression of full-length CFTR protein at the apical cell membrane, and thus can correct the typical electrophysiological abnormalities caused by CFTR dysfunction.
The main indication of buflomedil is PAD; however, because most cases of IOD occurred in people <40 years of age, where PAD is unlikely, it is possible that buflomedil was prescribed for other indications and/or that it was not directly prescribed to the end user, who rather gained access to the medication prescribed to family members or friends.
Support was found for a FGCB preventive intervention for children of parents with a history of MDD significantly reducing children's episodes of MDD over a period of 2 years. Significant effects for the FGCB intervention were also found on internalizing and externalizing symptoms, with stronger effects at 18- than at 24-month follow-up.
The intervention, delivered by local lay women, had a significant positive impact on the quality of the mother-infant relationship and on security of infant attachment, factors known to predict favourable child development. If these effects persist, and if they are replicated, this intervention holds considerable promise for use in the developing world.
The results of this study demonstrate that delivery of a 1 day intervention for distressed mothers can contribute to lower levels of parental distress and child problem behavior. Given the importance of early mother-child relationships and the limited number of well-controlled studies on brief interventions this result is of significance to researchers and the service community.
These findings represent a preliminary step towards evaluating interventions aimed at promoting secure attachment in Chilean mother-child dyads. While the effect of the intervention is not significant, the effect size obtained is respectable and consistent with other meta-analytic findings.
Assignment to IPT-MOMS was associated with reduced levels of maternal symptoms and improved functioning at the 3- and 9-month follow-ups compared to treatment as usual. Maternal improvement preceded improvement in offspring, suggesting that maternal changes may mediate child outcomes.
Infants referred by community health workers showed less optimal mother-infant interactions and had less optimal environment, compared with nonreferred dyads. Symptoms of emotional distress in infancy are best apprehended when assessed in multi-institutional contexts and formulated in a multiaxial approach.
Salbutamol is safe and effective in relieving the respiratory distress of young infants with acute bronchiolitis. Our study confirms previous observations that infants younger than six months of age respond as well as older children when given three doses of nebulized salbutamol. Responders could not be differentiated from non responders by personal or family histories of atopy and VRS isolation. A longitudinal study could establish a correlation between response to bronchodilator therapy and later development of asthma.
Albuterol is as effective as oral placebo in the management of bronchiolitis. Past studies supporting the use of albuterol did not control for effects of change in state of the infant and did not use a truly inactive placebo group. This study underscores the importance of these design components in measuring the efficacy of albuterol in infants.
The CBSSs of all the infants improved after three doses of nebulized therapy regardless of the treatment regimens. The combination of salbutamol with hypertonic saline did not lead to an additive effect in the improvement of CBSSs compared to the standard salbutamol + NS combination. Atopic children benefited from salbutamol/NS combination whereas non-atopic children improved with HS and NS nebulizations based on improvement percentages of CBSS.
Similar statistically significant bronchodilation occurred after all three bronchodilators as indicated by a decrease in peak inspiratory pressure and respiratory system resistance, but these changes were small and probably clinically insignificant. However, side effects of bronchodilators, such as tachycardia, also occurred, and these may be clinically significant. Thus the benefit of bronchodilator treatment in these patients is small, does not differ among the drugs we studied and of questionable value.
Dexamethasone with salbutamol shortened time to readiness for infirmary discharge during bronchiolitis episodes in patients with eczema or a family history of asthma in a first-degree relative. Infirmary and clinic visits in the subsequent week occurred similarly for the 2 groups.
Elimination of hypoxia by supplemental oxygen and moistening of inspired air relieve the symptoms of acute bronchiolitis. Nebulized racemic epinephrine and albuterol are safe and useful in the treatment of acute bronchiolitis. Improvements in symptom scores at 15 minutes favor the use of racemic epinephrine. As the action of epinephrine is short, the effect can be increased by repeated inhalations.
A wide variation in the treatment of bronchiolitis was noted. Despite lack of evidence of benefit most Swiss paediatricians use pharmaceutical agents in the management of acute bronchiolitis. In particular, bronchodilators and corticosteroids were used in inpatient management in Switzerland much more frequently than recently reported for Australian paediatricians. National guidelines could be helpful in reducing the variations in the management of acute bronchiolitis in our country.
Despite eight clinical trials, conclusive evidence for the efficacy of beta2-agonist therapy for bronchiolitis remains unavailable. Well-designed inpatient trials are needed. Meta-analysis of outpatient studies does not support the use of beta2-agonist therapy for bronchiolitis, but investigators have not studied the outcomes and the long-term outpatient regimen customarily used by clinicians.
Young infants, especially those who were 1 month old, were at greatest risk of RSV hospitalization. Four-fifths of RSV-hospitalized infants were previously healthy. To substantially reduce the burden of RSV hospitalizations, effective general preventive strategies will be required for all young infants, not just those with risk factors.
Epinephrine may be favorable compared with placebo and albuterol for short-term benefits among outpatients. There is insufficient evidence to support the use of epinephrine among inpatients. Large, multicentered trials are required before routine use among outpatients can be strongly recommended.
Overall, little evidence supports a routine role for any of these drugs in treating patients with bronchiolitis. A sufficiently large, well-designed pragmatic trial of the commonly used interventions for bronchiolitis is needed to determine the most effective treatment strategies for managing this condition.
This study prospectively describes the treatment of bronchiolitis in the pediatric ED. The findings are consistent with the literature regarding the reported use of bronchodilators; however, use of steroids was found to be much lower than reported in other studies. Bronchodilator use in the ED and at discharge varied significantly by site. The results capture variation in treatment practices in Canadian PEDs, which may be the result of discordant randomized controlled trial evidence. Further research is needed to establish best practices.
Calf-stretching exercises are not effective in reducing the frequency or severity of night cramps. Advising those on long-term repeat prescriptions to try stopping quinine temporarily will result in no major problems for patients, and allow a significant number to stop medication.
There is an increased prevalence of chronic muscle cramps in subjects with cirrhosis that appears to be independent of the etiology of cirrhosis, diuretic consumption, serum electrolyte alterations, or differences in Child's classification. These results suggest that cramps in these patients are related specifically to the development of cirrhosis, and worsening liver function may be a risk factor for the development of cramps.
Quinine-induced DIC is a distinct clinical entity, which may present as unexplained thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy, or renal failure. In susceptible patients, the immune response to quinine may result in the production of not only anti-platelet antibodies but also antibodies against leukocytes, erythrocytes, and endothelial cells. Furthermore, the varying patterns and specificities of antibody production in an individual patient may result in a spectrum of clinical disease from mild, transient thrombocytopenia to overt intravascular hemolysis, renal failure, coagulopathy, and DIC. Early recognition of quinine-induced DIC is paramount, as this diagnosis affords a better prognosis than other adult forms of HUS or DIC.
Careful consideration should be given to an internationally recommended method of universal screening for GDM which minimises the burden and cost for individual women and the healthcare system, yet provides diagnostic efficacy. The two-step method (GS +/- OGTT) accomplished this better than the one-step method (75-g OGTT).
Plasma glucose responses during the 75-g OGTT were found to be lower than those during the 100-g OGTT. When using the same diagnostic criteria, the prevalence of GDM was also found lower using the 75-g glucose load. It would therefore not be appropriate to use the 75-g OGTT for diagnosing GDM using the criteria and reference values of the 100-g OGTT. To give a comparable prevalence of GDM, the threshold of abnormal plasma glucose levels of the 75-g OGTT would need to be lower than that of the 100-g OGTT.
We have reached the following conclusions. 1) In nondiabetic gravidas, plasma glucose concentrations 1 h after ingestion of a 50-g oral glucose load are higher if administered in the fasting state compared with the postprandial state. 2) During normal pregnancy the Staub-Traugott Effect, i.e., improved glucose disposal after successive glucose load administrations, occurs and appears to be caused by mechanisms other than enhanced insulin secretion with successive glucose loads. 3) The effect of the prandial state on plasma glucose response to the 50-g glucose challenge test used to screen for gestational diabetes mellitus may be of sufficient magnitude to significantly alter the operating characteristics, i.e., sensitivity and specificity, of this test.
Jelly beans may be used as an alternative to the 50-g glucose beverage as a sugar source for gestational diabetes mellitus screening. The 2 sources provoke similar serum glucose responses. Patients report fewer side effects after a jelly bean challenge than after a 50-g glucose beverage challenge.
Serum insulin determination at gestation week < or = 16 is an easy and reliable method with which to predict GDM in a high-risk group. Despite a negative OGTT, patients with an elevated fasting and/or 120-min serum insulin level at gestation week < or = 16 should be managed in the same way as those with GDM. Considering the very high negative predictive value of the method, patients with a normal fasting and/or 120-min serum insulin level at gestation week < or = 16 should undergo an OGTT only at gestation weeks 32-34.
Higher birth weight predicted increased risk of overweight in adolescence. Having been born to a mother with GDM was also associated with increased adolescent overweight. However, the effect of GDM on offspring obesity seemed only partially explained by its influence on birth weight, and adjustment for mother's own BMI attenuated the GDM associations. Our results only modestly support a causal role of altered maternal-fetal glucose metabolism in the genesis of obesity in the offspring. Alternatively, GDM may program risk for a postnatal insult leading to obesity, or it may merely be a risk marker, not in the causal pathway.
Although treatment of mild gestational diabetes mellitus did not significantly reduce the frequency of a composite outcome that included stillbirth or perinatal death and several neonatal complications, it did reduce the risks of fetal overgrowth, shoulder dystocia, cesarean delivery, and hypertensive disorders. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Infants of mothers with diabetes during pregnancy are predisposed to develop overweight and obesity during childhood. These alterations seem to be related to insulin and relative body weight at birth. Pathophysiological mechanisms which might be involved into the development of these changes are discussed. Prophylactic measures are recommended to reduce morbidity in infants of diabetic mothers.
Pressure ulcers represent a very significant cost burden in the UK. Without concerted effort this cost is likely to increase in the future as the population ages. To the extent that pressure ulcers are avoidable, pressure damage may be indicative of clinical negligence and there is evidence that litigation could soon become a significant threat to healthcare providers in the UK, as it is in the USA.
Our systematic review provided only weak levels of evidence on the clinical efficacy of modern dressings compared with saline or paraffin gauze in terms of healing, with the exception of hydrocolloids. There was no evidence that any of the modern dressings was better than another, or better than saline or paraffin gauze, in terms of general performance criteria. More wound care research providing level A evidence is needed.
The study patient was most likely to have a clean wound bed after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment, less likely to need to switch debridement methods, and of equal or less likelihood of experiencing and infection and subsequent hospitalization when her wound was debrided with collagenase. Treatment with collagenase also resulted in the lowest total cost of treatment. Longer term, prospective studies using actual utilization data are needed to refine these estimates of the clinical and cost-effectiveness of each product.
Given current evidence, using support surfaces, repositioning the patient, optimizing nutritional status, and moisturizing sacral skin are appropriate strategies to prevent pressure ulcers. Although a number of RCTs have evaluated preventive strategies for pressure ulcers, many of them had important methodological limitations. There is a need for well-designed RCTs that follow standard criteria for reporting nonpharmacological interventions and that provide data on cost-effectiveness for these interventions.
Pressure ulcers that develop during acute hospitalization are not associated with reduced 1-year survival among high risk older persons after adjusting for nutritional and functional status, global measures of disease severity and co-morbidity, and noninfectious hospital complications.
The Gaucher Registry permits a comprehensive understanding of the clinical spectrum of GD because of the uniquely large sample size. The Registry will be useful in evaluating the effects of specific therapies in GD and the possible influences of environment, ethnicity, and genotype on the natural history of the disorder.
When used to target normal fasting plasma glucose levels for more than 6 years, insulin glargine had a neutral effect on cardiovascular outcomes and cancers. Although it reduced new-onset diabetes, insulin glargine also increased hypoglycemia and modestly increased weight. (Funded by Sanofi; ORIGIN ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Enzyme therapy with imiglucerase/alglucerase displays a dose-dependent improvement in hematological and visceral parameters in Gaucher disease type 1 patients. Group C displayed greater treatment effects than Groups A or B. Propensity score matching and nonlinear mixed effects model analyses provide a prototype for assessment of treatment outcomes based on observational data from international rare disease registries.
Nonneuronopathic GD commonly manifests in childhood and affects many ethnic groups. The high prevalence of rare mutations may be associated with earlier onset and/or more severe disease. Increased awareness of the clinical and demographic characteristics of nonneuronopathic GD in children may improve early recognition of this treatable lysosomal storage disorder, decrease morbidity, and prevent irreversible sequelae.
Growth retardation in childhood and delay of puberty are characteristic of Gaucher disease type 1 and are more frequent with severe disease. There is a spontaneous catch-up later in life and most patients reach a final height within their genetic growth potential. Enzyme replacement therapy apparently normalizes growth and possibly also the onset of puberty.
Low bone density is common in GD1 with the highest prevalence rate in adolescence, a developmental period critical to attainment of peak bone mass. Imiglucerase results in amelioration of osteopenia in all age groups, with the greatest improvements in younger patients.
The incidence of Parkinsonism among GD1 patients is significantly increased compared to two reference populations. GD1 patients with Parkinsonism have a later median age at GD diagnosis, later age at the start of treatment, and later age at death than patients with GD1 alone. The Gaucher-related clinical profile of GD1 patients with Parkinsonism is similar to or milder than the GD1 alone group. Therefore, severity of the common GD1 clinical manifestations does not appear to be predictive for the onset of Parkinsonism.
The long-term stability of reported events and seroconversion is a reflection of a well-characterized cell expression system and a mature quality-controlled manufacturing process. Imiglucerase is a safe therapy for the treatment of Gaucher disease with a stable and low rate of reported adverse events and seroconversion.
The addition of the aquatic physical exercise programme to usual care was effective to decrease the impact of the disease on physical and mental health. However, the placebo effect could have contributed to this effectiveness.
An exercise therapy 3 times a week for 16 weeks in a warm pool could improve most of the symptoms of FM and cause a high adherence to exercise in unfit women with heightened FM symptomatology. The therapeutic intervention's effects can be assessed through applicable tests in the clinical practice.
A 3-month multidisciplinary intervention three times/week had a positive effect on pain threshold in several tender points in women with FM. Though no overall improvements were observed in physical fitness or body composition, the intervention had positive effects on lower-body flexibility.
We identified subgroups of women with fibromyalgia based on how they perceived pain after isometric contractions. The greatest pain relief for women with fibromyalgia occurred at a younger age and in women with the greatest experimental pain before exercise. Additionally, we established a link between experimental and clinical pain relief after the performance of isometric contractions.
These findings indicate that cardiovagal modulation of heart rate recovers early after leg resistance exercise in women with FM and HCs. It is concluded that RET reduces the severity of FM, but it has no impact on autonomic modulation of heart rate.
A larger number of subjects and direct supervision of the training program to increase compliance is necessary to clarify the effects of a walking program on the manifestations of FM. Results indicate that intensity of the walking program is an important consideration. Individuals with FM can adhere to low-intensity walking programs two to three times per week, possibly reducing FM impact on daily activities.
It is concluded that the women with FM who participated in this study experienced significant improvements in pain after exercise. The results from this study are novel and indicate that recommendations for exercise prescription for individuals with FM should consider the preferred-intensity exercise model as a strategy to reduce pain.
Cardiorespiratory fitness, as expressed by a submaximal work capacity index, seems normal in female patients with FMS compared with age- and sex-matched healthy individuals. The fact that FMS patients overscore their perception of exertion may be due to a greater overlap of peripheral pain and perceived exertion perceptions during exercise. This observation should be noted when using perceived exertion scores to prescribe and monitor exercise in FMS patients.
These results suggest that a 1.5-day multidisciplinary fibromyalgia treatment program does have a significant positive effect on the impact of illness among patients with fibromyalgia with or without concomitant depression and may be a cost-effective model for the treatment of these patients.
A brief interdisciplinary program for treating fibromyalgia reduced some associated symptoms. Patients more severely affected by fibromyalgia may benefit most from this approach. Clinicians may apply these findings to develop beneficial and convenient treatment programs for patients with fibromyalgia.
We suggest Pilates as an effective and safe method for people with FMS. Our study is the first clinical study designed to investigate the role of the Pilates method in FMS treatment. We believe that further research with more participants and longer follow-up periods could help assess the therapeutic value of this popular physical exercise method.
Women with fibromyalgia and low IGF-1 levels experienced an improvement in their overall symptomatology and number of tender points after 9 months of daily growth hormone therapy. This suggests that a secondary growth hormone deficiency may be responsible for some of the symptoms of fibromyalgia.
Although participants reported greater perceived improvement at each assessment, the beneficial effects of LPA on physical activity, function, and pain found after the 12-week intervention were not sustained over time. This recidivism is seen in studies of activity and exercise in nearly any condition, and innovative methods that may prevent this are a focus of future studies.
Despite the chronicity and complexity of FMS, there are pharmacological and nonpharmacological interventions available that have clinical benefit. Based on current evidence, a stepwise program emphasizing education, certain medications, exercise, cognitive therapy, or all 4 should be recommended.
The strength training data indicate comparable trainability of the neuromuscular system of women with FM and healthy women. Progressive strength training can safely be used in the treatment of FM to decrease the impact of the syndrome on the neuromuscular system, perceived symptoms, and functional capacity. These results confirm the opinion that FM syndrome has a central rather than a peripheral or muscular basis.
Moderate-to-high intensity aerobic exercise by means of Nordic walking twice a week for 15 weeks was found to be a feasible mode of exercise, resulting in improved functional capacity and a decreased level of activity limitations. Pain severity did not change over time during the exercise period.
Aerobic exercise, warm up and cool-down periods and relaxation exercises are common features of hydrotherapy programs that report significant FMS-related outcomes. Treatment duration of 60 minutes, frequency of three sessions per week and an intensity equivalent to 60%-80% maximum heart rate were the most commonly reported exercise components. Exercise appears to be the most important component of an effective hydrotherapy program for FMS, particularly when considering mental health-related outcomes.
This methodology of developing EBCPGs provides a structured approach to assessing the literature and developing guidelines that incorporates clinicians' feedback and is widely acceptable to practicing clinicians. Further well-designed RCTs are warranted regarding the use of several interventions for patients with low back pain where evidence was insufficient to make recommendations.
Progressive walking, simple strength training movements, and stretching activities improve functional status, key symptoms, and self-efficacy in women with fibromyalgia actively being treated with medication. The benefits of exercise are enhanced when combined with targeted self-management education. Our findings suggest that appropriate exercise and patient education be included in the treatment of fibromyalgia.
Concurrent strength and endurance training in low to moderate volume improves the muscle strength of leg extensors, Wmax, work time, and functional performance as well as perceived symptoms, fatigue in particular. Concurrent strength and endurance training is beneficial to postmenopausal women with FM without adversities, but more extensive studies are needed to confirm the results.
Among CAPD patients who were S. aureus nasal carriers, periodic brief treatment with nasal mupirocin after an initial eradication regimen kept them free of carriage, for the most part, with few adverse effects. The pulse mupirocin regimen offers simplicity and possibly better compliance, as well as minimizing exposure to this agent, thereby possibly reducing the risk of resistance. Further studies are warranted to compare this regimen to other commonly used mupirocin maintenance regimens in dialysis patients.
The results of this study suggest gene dissemination among some isolates and intra-hospital spread of other isolates. The risk factors identified clearly suggest that VR E. faecalis is a nosocomial pathogen and should be considered in infection control practices. Further surveillance of VR E. faecalis is warranted, due to the potential spread of vancomycin resistance among enterococci and staphylococci.
Our brief motivational intervention was no more effective at inducing behaviour change than the provision of information alone. We hypothesize that research recruitment, baseline self-assessment and contact with study personnel are influences that induce positive reactive effects on stimulant use.
The results of this study show the effectiveness of this intervention program, based on reduced alcohol consumption in the intervention group at 1- and 2-year follow-up, compared with the control group. Compared with other programs, the present intervention is brief, intensive, and relatively easy to implement.
Methamphetamine use has become a serious problem in Cape Town, particularly among adolescents. Screening adolescents in school settings for methamphetamine use and behavior problems may be useful in identifying youth at risk for substance misuse, providing an opportunity for early intervention. These findings have implications for other parts of the world where methamphetamine use may be occurring at younger ages and highlight the importance of looking at co-morbid issues related to methamphetamine use.
No single intervention could be confidently recommended due to confounding evidence. However, successful elements of past studies warrant further investigation. These include face-to-face, one-session, motivational interviewing-style brief interventions, focusing on harm minimisation and all with long-term follow-up.
Very short-term use of IV hydrocortisone was found effective in reducing headache following spinal anesthesia. However, its clear mechanism of action is yet to be determined. Large-scale studies are recommended to consider the steroid therapy as a standard treatment for postdural puncture headache.
Gabapentin significantly reduced pain, nausea and vomiting compared to Cafergot in patients with PDPH. Lastly, we hypothesize that the gabaergic action of gabapentin, perhaps combined with other mechanisms, such as calcium channel blockade, may be responsible for its remarkable effects on PDPH.
Intravenous and oral caffeine are effective and noninvasive treatments for PDPH. Epidural NaCl 0.9% or dextran are alternatives when the EBP is unsuccessful or contraindicated. Several methods of pharmacologic management have been cited in the literature, but all require further evaluation.
The minimum clinically significant difference in VAS pain scores was found to be 9 mm. Differences of less than this amount, even if statistically significant, are unlikely to be of clinical significance. No significant difference in minimum significant VAS scores was found between gender, age, and cause-of-pain groups.
In this study of sexual-violence survivors in a low-income, conflict-affected country, group psychotherapy reduced PTSD symptoms and combined depression and anxiety symptoms and improved functioning. (Funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development Victims of Torture Fund and the World Bank; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The majority of articles about refugee trauma or health are either descriptive or include quantitative data from instruments that have limited or untested validity and reliability in refugees. Primary limitations to accurate measurement in refugee research are the lack of theoretical bases to instruments and inattention to using and reporting sound measurement principles.
Discrete approaches to treatment have been developed, but many have yet to be evaluated critically. Common therapeutic elements are outlined. It is recommended that an integrated, flexible, client-centred approach utilising several techniques is most likely to achieve best results. Wider socio-political aspects should be taken into account, and treatment must be consistent with cultural expectations. Future directions for research are outlined and the role of primary prevention is stressed.
Neurological sequelae of torture can be devastating physically and psychologically. The treatment of these neurological conditions does not differ from other patient populations. However, the clinical approach is unique and must focus on avoiding retraumatization and helping the victim reintegrate into society as quickly as possible.
The apparent prevalence and severity of the physical and mental sequelae to sexual trauma make it an important area for screening when treating survivors of torture. Our study is the first of its kind to document urologic complications of sexual torture in a foreign-born U.S. cohort of tortured men, including prevalence, diagnosis, and treatment. The proposed use of steroid injections in the clinical treatment of these patients has not been previously reported.
Translation, adaptation and validation of instruments or scales for cross-cultural research is very time-consuming and requires careful planning and the adoption of rigorous methodological approaches to derive a reliable and valid measure of the concept of interest in the target population.
Among Bhutanese refugees, the survivors had higher lifetime and 12-month rates of ICD-10 psychiatric disorder. Men were more likely to report torture, but tortured women were more likely to report certain disorders. The results indicate the increased need for attention to the mental health of refugees, specifically posttraumatic stress disorder, persistent somatoform pain disorder, and dissociative (amnesia and conversion) disorders among those reporting torture.
Our study highlights the specific character of PCR and DAT for the exploration of Leishmania asymptomatic infections. PCR is probably more informative for very recent infections among HNK, while DAT provides more information among HHC and HPK, a feature likely related to the power of serology to track less recent infections.
After four years of low but constant VL case findings, a major increase in VL was observed over a 16-month period in the Huddur VL centre. The profile of the patients was pediatric and mortality relatively low. Decentralized treatment centers, targeted active screening, and community sensitization will help decrease morbidity and mortality from VL in this endemic area. The true magnitude of VL in Somalia remains unknown. Further documentation to better understand transmission dynamics and thus define appropriate control measures will depend on the stability of the context and safe access to the Somali population.
This continuing epidemic has shown that VL can cause high mortality in an outbreak with astonishingly high infection rates. Population movement has been a major factor in transmission and poor nutritional status has probably contributed to the risk of clinical infection. Although over 17,000 people have been successfully treated for VL at the clinics in WUN, the disease is likely to become endemic there.
This study confirms that adequate acupuncture treatment may help motivated smokers to reduce their smoking, or even quit smoking completely, and the effect may last for at least 5 years. Acupuncture may affect the subjects' smoking by reducing their taste of tobacco and their desire to smoke. Different acupoints have different effects on smoking cessation.
NB UVB phototherapy is an effective second-line treatment for patients with severe symptomatic dermographism responding poorly to fexofenadine. This therapy can lead to subjective relief of pruritus and whealing and objective reduction of whealing. NB UVB phototherapy may restore symptom control with antihistamines in some patients.
UVC is beneficial for stage 2 buttock ulcers. Further studies are warranted using a larger sample size, carefully considered exclusion criteria, and strategies to ensure homogeneity of the groups that are being compared.
Benchmarking is one of the tools that enables health care professionals to measure and identify inconsistencies in patient care practices. Understanding these inconsistencies enables the health care team to develop processes that are innovative and efficient. National pressure ulcer prevalence surveys provide a benchmark to evaluate an individual facility's care and treatment of patients at risk for pressure ulcer development. Success, however, lies in the health care professional's ability to take the information and apply it to clinical practice. Through the use of a benchmarking approach, performance gaps can be identified, processes can be put into place, and improved patient outcomes can be monitored and maintained.
In patients with moderate to severe persistent asthma not sufficiently controlled with inhaled corticosteroids alone, the combination of inhaled salmeterol and inhaled corticosteroids is superior to the combination of oral zafirlukast and inhaled corticosteroids as stepwise therapy.
The addition of salmeterol in the treatment of persistent asthma resulted in sustained improvement in pulmonary function and symptoms. The long-term use of salmeterol is safe and improves the clinical course and stability of asthma following reductions in nonsteroidal asthma therapy.
Treating 2 main components of asthma, inflammation and smooth muscle dysfunction, using fluticasone propionate-salmeterol is more cost-effective than using a single mediator antagonist alone, such as montelukast, as initial maintenance therapy for persistent asthma in patients treated with a short-acting beta2-agonist only.
The FeNO levels were significantly higher after salmeterol add-on treatment compared with both placebo and montelukast add-on treatment. Salmeterol significantly improved lung function (FEV1) compared with placebo and nonsignificantly compared with montelukast. Montelukast failed to reduce FeNO and improve lung function compared with placebo in this group of children taking regular budesonide, 400 microg.
FP/SM conferred improvements on AHR and airway calibre, while twice the dose of FP improved only AHR in patients with mild asthma. The differential effects of FP/SM and FP suggest separate but complementary actions of the two moieties on airway inflammation and smooth muscle stabilization. This may explain the beneficial effects of combination inhalers on exacerbations.
The bronchoprotective effect of montelukast was maintained throughout 8 weeks of study. In contrast, significant loss of bronchoprotection at weeks 4 and 8 was seen with salmeterol. Long-term administration of montelukast provided consistent inhibition of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction at the end of the 8-week dosing interval without tolerance.
Inhaled fluticasone propionate < or =500 microg/day is an effective antiinflammatory therapy for mild to moderate asthma in adolescents and adults. The drug is more effective than nedocromil, theophylline or zafirlukast and is at least as effective as other inhaled corticosteroids administered at twice the fluticasone propionate dosage. The addition of inhaled salmeterol allows the use of lower maintenance dosages of fluticasone propionate. The drug is well tolerated and there is no evidence of a clinically significant effect of this dosage on HPA axis function. Hence, fluticasone propionate < or =500 microg/day is a particularly suitable agent for patients with mild to moderate asthma.
Oral montelukast (4-mg chewable tablet) administered once daily is effective therapy for asthma in children aged 2 to 5 years and is generally well tolerated without clinically important adverse effects. Similarly, in adults and children aged 6 to 14 years, montelukast improves multiple parameters of asthma control. Thus, this study confirms and extends the benefit of montelukast to younger children with persistent asthma.
Formoterol and zafirlukast maintained asthma control in patients who might be genetically predisposed to fare worse with long-acting beta(2)-agonists. The reduction in exhaled nitric oxide with zafirlukast suggests that it may have anti-inflammatory effects in addition to those seen with inhaled corticosteroids.
Patients with asthma that is well controlled with the use of twice-daily inhaled fluticasone can be switched to once-daily fluticasone plus salmeterol without increased rates of treatment failure. A switch to montelukast results in an increased rate of treatment failure and decreased asthma control; however, patients taking montelukast remained free of symptoms on 78.7% of treatment days. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In these children with uncontrolled asthma previously on short-acting beta(2)-agonist monotherapy (% predicted FEV(1) <80%, frequent asthma symptoms and rescue medication use), treatment with SFC was significantly more effective in improving morning PEF and other measures of asthma control and in decreasing exacerbation rates (in a post hoc analysis) than treatment with MON. The 2 drugs were both well tolerated, with similar numbers and types of AEs reported.
In reviewing available clinical results as well as real-world experience in managing asthma patients, the Antileukotriene Working Group concludes that anti-LTs may be used in patients with mild persistent asthma as well as in combination with other asthma medications at all levels of disease severity for long-term maintenance of asthma control.
Budesonide/formoterol in a single inhaler is as safe and effective in the long-term treatment of asthma as budesonide plus formoterol via separate inhalers. The lower number of withdrawals with budesonide/formoterol may reflect better adherence to treatment compared with budesonide plus formoterol.
From a third-party payer perspective, this analysis shows that based on increased efficacy and only a slight increase in cost, twice-daily treatment with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate is more cost effective than once-daily treatment with montelukast as initial maintenance therapy for persistent asthma. This finding complements the results of the clinical analyses indicating that treatment of both inflammation and bronchoconstriction with products such as salmeterol/ fluticasone propionate may be more cost effective as initial maintenance asthma therapy than the use of leukotriene modifiers such as montelukast.
In genetically susceptible patients with the homozygous glycine-16 genotype, montelukast, but not formoterol, conferred sustained anti-inflammatory properties in addition to inhaled corticosteroid, which were dissociated from changes in lung function after 2 weeks. Thus, assessing lung function may miss potentially beneficial anti-inflammatory effects of montelukast when used as add-on therapy.
Thiamine tetrahydrofurfuryl disulfide appears to have a beneficial clinical effect on some autistic children, since 8 of the 10 children improved clinically. We obtained evidence of an association of this increasingly occurring disease with presence of urinary SH-reactive metals, arsenic in particular.
Autistic spectrum disorders and ADHD are complicated conditions that probably require multidimensional treatment strategies. Larger studies are needed to determine optimum treatment plans involving nutrition, environmental control, medication, and behavioral/education/speech/physical therapies.
Children served themselves more with larger plates and bowls and consumed nearly 50% of the calories that they served. This provides new evidence that children's self-served portion sizes are influenced by size-related facets of their eating environments, which, in turn, may influence children's energy intake.
Adolescents consumed approximately 50% of energy needs regardless of manipulations in portion sizes and eating rate to attenuate gorging. This finding suggests that nutritional factors inherent to fast food, such as low levels of dietary fiber, high palatability, high energy density, high fat content, high glycemic load, and high content of sugar in liquid form promote excess energy intake.
Large entrée portions may constitute an "obesigenic" environmental influence for preschool-aged children by producing excessive intake at meals. Children with satiety deficits may be most susceptible to large portions. Allowing children to select their own portion size may circumvent the effects of exposure to large portions on children's eating.
Serving a larger portion of beverage resulted in increased beverage consumption, and increased energy intake from the beverage when a caloric beverage was served. Serving a caloric beverage resulted in an overall increase in total energy consumed at lunch. Therefore, replacing caloric beverages with low-calorie or noncaloric beverages can be an effective strategy for decreasing energy intake.
Serving more vegetables, either by adding more or substituting them for other foods, is an effective strategy to increase vegetable intake at a meal. However, to moderate meal energy intake, vegetables should be low in energy density; furthermore, the substitution of vegetables for more energy-dense foods is more effective than simply adding extra vegetables.
People could try using the size of their bowls and possibly serving spoons to help them better control how much they consume. Those interested in losing weight should use smaller bowls and spoons, while those needing to gain weight--such as the undernourished or aged--could be encouraged to use larger ones. Epidemiologic implications are discussed.
These findings demonstrate the successful implementation of LFLS guidelines similar to recommendations recently proposed by numerous organizations. School food service personnel were identified as key stakeholders in the successful implementation of the LFLS guidelines. Furthermore, these findings emphasize an important role the food and beverage industry will have in providing foods and beverages that meet proposed nutrient and portion guidelines.
Advice to consume a healthy low-energy diet leads to sustained weight loss, with reductions in cardiovascular disease risk factors regardless of an emphasis on more vegetables. In the short term, consuming a higher proportion of the dietary energy as vegetables may support a greater weight loss and the dietary pattern appears sustainable.
  Offering a smaller portion size in addition to the existing size, as well as proportional pricing, was generally implemented as prescribed by the protocol and can be considered promising in terms of continued use. However, additional efforts are needed to make the intervention more effective in motivating consumers to replace their large portion with a small portion.
The lifestyle intervention program using the Japanese-style healthy plate, which was developed for portion control, may effectively reduce body weight in overweight and obese diabetic subjects in Japan. Further studies are needed to establish the efficacy of this methodology on weight management.
Findings confirm the prevalence and robustness of the portion size effect and suggest that it may be independent from awareness of internal cues. Prevention strategies may benefit more from targeting awareness of the external environment. However, mindfulness-based interventions may be effective to reduce effects of hunger on unhealthy food consumption.
Sliced fruit is more appealing to children than whole fruit because it is easier and tidier to eat. This study applies the principle of convenience from behavioral economics and provides an example of a scalable, low-cost environmental change that promotes healthy eating and decreases waste.
If properly implemented and monitored, voluntary agreements can be an effective policy approach, though there is little evidence on whether they are more effective than compulsory approaches. Some of the most effective voluntary agreements include substantial disincentives for non-participation and sanctions for non-compliance. Many countries are moving towards these more formal approaches to voluntary agreements.
Public acceptability of government interventions to change behaviour is greatest for the least intrusive interventions, which are often the least effective, and for interventions targeting the behaviour of others, rather than the respondent him or herself. Experimental studies are needed to assess how the presentation of the problem and the benefits of intervention might increase acceptability for those interventions which are more effective but currently less acceptable.
Depressive symptoms, potentially modifiable, were 4 times that found in the general population and independently predicted increased food and beverage ED. Further research is needed to determine if improvements in depressive symptoms alter dietary ED, potentially reducing cardiometabolic disease risk.
Prevalence of soda consumption fell, but consumption of nontraditional SSBs rose. Heterogeneity of heavy consumption by SSB types across racial/ethnic subpopulations and higher odds of heavy SSB consumption among low-SES populations should be considered in targeting policies to encourage healthful beverage consumption.
Brief interventions can reduce alcohol consumption in men, with benefit at a year after intervention, but they are unproven in women for whom there is insufficient research data. Longer counselling has little additional effect over brief intervention. The lack of differences in outcomes between efficacy and effectiveness trials suggests that the current literature is relevant to routine primary care.
US adults have decreased consumption of foods from the home supply and reduced time spent cooking since 1965, but this trend appears to have leveled off, with no substantial decrease occurring after the mid-1990's. Across socioeconomic groups, people consume the majority of daily energy from the home food supply, yet only slightly more than half spend any time cooking on a given day. Efforts to boost the healthfulness of the US diet should focus on promoting the preparation of healthy foods at home while incorporating limits on time available for cooking.
Manipulation of the palatability of a test meal modified the ability to respond to disguised high-energy preloads, with over-consumption most evident when disguised high-energy preloads were followed by a palatable food. Subsequent voluntary intake compensated for over-consumption of the palatable lunch, but not the high-energy preload.
Chest tubes placed by resident physicians are commonly associated with complications that are not identified by postinsertional AP CXR. Thoracic CT is the only way to reliably identify this morbidity. The differential rate of complications according to resident specialty suggests that residents in non-general surgical training programs may benefit from more structured instruction and closer supervision in tube thoracostomy.
PC were as effective as ICC in treating SP in terms of initial pneumothorax resolution and LOS. There were trends towards higher complication and recurrence rates in those treated with PC, but individually these results did not reach statistical significance. However, the combined rate of complications and pneumo-thorax recurrence was significantly higher in those patients treated with the PC than in those treated with ICC.
Despite early benefits, there were no clear effects at 3 years of age. As 40% of the placebo group eventually received open steroids, even a trial of this size has limited statistical power to detect a moderate effect of the policy. Regardless of random allocation, overall morbidity was high, confirming that babies with protracted dependence on supplemental oxygen are at high risk of childhood disability and poor health.
Information was obtained for 150 adolescents randomized to receive dexamethasone or placebo for neonatal chronic lung disease. Rates of disabilities and educational difficulties were high, but with no significant differences between the 2 groups. Some use of open-label steroids in the placebo group plus losses to long-term follow-up monitoring reduced the power of this study to detect clinically important differences, and this study cannot rule out a real increase in cerebral palsy, as reported by others.
Despite a shorter duration of neonatal assisted ventilation, there is no evidence that dexamethasone use is associated with long-term improvement in lung function. Impaired growth and poor health status are long-term consequences of neonatal chronic lung disease, irrespective of exposure to neonatal dexamethasone.
Low-dose dexamethasone treatment after the first 1 week of life clearly facilitates extubation and shortens the duration of intubation among ventilator-dependent, very preterm/extremely low birth weight infants, without any obvious short-term complications. Combined with recent evidence that infants at very high risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia may benefit in the long term, our study reopens debate regarding the role of low-dose, late postnatal, corticosteroid therapy.
Our findings indicate that: 1) early dexamethasone therapy in VLBW infants markedly improves respiratory compliance and tidal volume, reduces FiO2 and MAP requirements, and facilitates extubation in these infants; 2) early dexamethasone therapy reduces the duration of mechanical ventilation and decreases CLD (at 28 days and 36 weeks) in a population of VLBW infants largely treated with surfactant.
Infants receiving dexamethasone developed evidence for impaired LV filling with a lager increase in wall thickness but no increase in LV mass, asymmetric septal hypertrophy, or augmented systolic function. This suggests that alterations in left ventricular filling play an important role in the development of hypertrophy seen with dexamethasone administration.
Postnatal DEX exposure was associated with higher expiratory flow with no adverse effects on pulmonary outcomes at school age. The prevalences of asthma and impaired pulmonary function underscore the influence of neonatal illness on health at school age, and stress the importance of repeated follow-up examinations of these children.
A 42-day tapering course of dexamethasone was associated with an increased risk of cerebral palsy. Possible explanations include an adverse effect of this therapy on brain development and/or improved survival of infants who either already have neurologic injury or who are at increased risk for such injury.
In a group of preterm very low birth-weight infants at high risk for chronic lung disease, we found no effects of dexamethasone on blood pressure or anthropometric measurements at 8 to 11 years of age. Of concern is that a high proportion in this sample had blood pressure > or = 90th percentile and/or body mass index > or = 85th percentile.
Infants who received a 14-day course of dexamethasone initiated at 2 weeks of age were more likely to develop a bloodstream or cerebrospinal fluid infection while on dexamethasone therapy than were those who received placebo. Physicians must consider this increased risk of infection when deciding whether to treat VLBW infants with dexamethasone.
Postnatal dexamethasone treatment with the schedule used in this study did not impair growth and neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm infants. Data from larger trials have raised major concern that postnatal steroid treatment may increase neurodevelopmental impairment. The full extent of the risk will only be known when more trials have reported follow up data.
Our findings indicate that 1) comparable significant increases in Crs are present in the low-dose dexamethasone as well as the high-dose dexamethasone groups on days 2, 5, and 7 of steroid therapy; and 2) MAP and Fio2 are significantly decreased during dexamethasone therapy in both groups of infants. We conclude that low-dose and high-dose dexamethasone, as used in this study, have comparable beneficial effects on dynamic pulmonary mechanics and subsequently on oxygen requirement and applied ventilatory support in VLBW infants.
A stress dose of hydrocortisone was effective in treating refractory hypotension in VLBW infants. Although routine and prophylactic use of systemic corticosteroids could not be recommended because of their potential adverse effects, this relatively low dose of hydrocortisone would probably be preferable to high-dose dexamethasone for treatment of refractory hypotension in emergency and life-threatening situations.
We found an additive effect between dexamethasone and surfactant in improving pulmonary status and reducing the incidence of BPD. Compared with the placebo, dexamethasone therapy was more effective in reducing the incidence of BPD in surfactant-pretreated very low birth weight infants.
Early (<96 hours) postnatal dexamethasone administration at the doses employed in this study did not impair physical or neurodevelopmental outcome in preterm infants at high risk of CLD. However, the small sample size of our study was not tailored to look for long-term outcomes and our results are not in agreement with those of larger trials and systematic reviews. The real risks of postnatal dexamethasone administration could be definitely assessed only when more well-designed trials using long-term neurodevelopmental assessment as the primary outcome will be reported.
This dose of early intravenous dexamethasone did not reduce the requirement for oxygen at 36 weeks' CGA and survival was not improved. However, early dexamethasone reduced the use of later prolonged dexamethasone therapy, and among survivors, reduced the median days on oxygen and ventilation. We conclude that this course of early dexamethasone probably represents a near minimum dose for instituting a prophylactic regimen against bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
Prophylaxis of early adrenal insufficiency did not improve survival without BPD in the overall study population; however, treatment of chorioamnionitis-exposed infants significantly decreased mortality and improved survival without BPD. Low-dose hydrocortisone therapy did not suppress adrenal function or compromise short-term growth. The combination of indomethacin and hydrocortisone should be avoided.
Early, low-dose hydrocortisone treatment was not associated with increased cerebral palsy. Treated infants had indicators of improved developmental outcome. Together with the short-term benefit previously reported, these data support additional studies of hydrocortisone treatment of adrenal insufficiency in extremely premature infants.
In preterm infants with severe respiratory distress syndrome requiring assisted ventilation shortly after birth, early postnatal dexamethasone therapy reduces the incidence of chronic lung disease, probably on the basis of decreasing the pulmonary inflammatory process during the early neonatal period. Infection or sepsis is the major side effect that may affect the immediate outcome. Other observable side effects are transient. In view of the significant side effects and the lack of overall improvement in outcome and mortality, and the lack of long term follow-up data, the routine use of early dexamethasone therapy is not yet recommended.
Although early postnatal dexamethasone therapy for 4 weeks significantly reduces the incidence of CLD, this therapeutic regimen cannot be recommended at present because of its adverse effects on neuromotor function and somatic growth in male infants, detected at 2 years of age. A longer follow-up is needed. If early dexamethasone therapy is to be used for the prevention of CLD, the therapeutic regimen should be modified. The proper route of administration, the critical time to initiate the therapy, and the dosage and duration of therapy remain to be defined further.
Early postnatal dexamethasone therapy should not be recommended for the routine prevention or treatment of chronic lung disease, because it leads to substantial adverse effects on neuromotor and cognitive function at school age.
Although postnatal corticosteroids have short-term benefits, they do not increase the survival rate, and they may cause motor dysfunction in survivors. A large-scale, placebo-controlled randomized trial, with survival free of sensorineural impairments and disabilities as the major endpoint, is urgently needed.
First, early treatment with low-dose hydrocortisone in this population of extremely low birth weight infants increased the likelihood of survival without CLD. Second, the benefit was particularly apparent in infants with chorioamnionitis. Third, a larger multicenter trial is needed to verify the primary outcome and to better evaluate risks and benefits.
The identification of disorganised attachment has greatly increased the potential relevance of attachment theory to general clinical work. However, the concept raises many methodological and theoretical issues. Among issues needing further exploration is the way in which attachment disorganisation relates to children's general mental states and may be affected by cognitive functioning and developmental impairment.
The early findings of this study demonstrate that pregnant adolescents benefit from both traditional and more intense public health nursing care in terms of prenatal and perinatal outcomes. The EIP was associated with decreased infant morbidity during the first 6 weeks of life and decreased maternal school dropout. Long-term outcomes for the EIP are being evaluated.
These findings demonstrate the positive effects of a PHN home visitation program on health outcomes for children of adolescent mothers. Days of infant hospitalization were substantially reduced and immunization rates increased during the first year of life for children of EIP mothers. Greater efforts need to be directed toward preventing repeat pregnancy and return to substance use following childbirth in at-risk adolescent mothers.
Laser dermabrasion significantly improves the repigmentation rate in vitiligo lesions. Despite a high rate of repigmentation in such difficult-to-treat areas the high rate of side-effects and the poor tolerance strongly limit its use in current practice.
NCES is significantly better than SBEG and should be the preferred treatment for patients with stable vitiligo. To best of our knowledge, this is the first study directly comparing these two techniques.
The VASI is a quantitative clinical tool that can be used to evaluate vitiligo parametrically. Patients treated with NB-UV-B can be expected to achieve approximately 42.9% repigmentation of their vitiligo after 6 months of treatment, with the greatest response being achieved over the trunk and nonacral portions of the extremities.
308-nm excimer laser therapy is effective against vitiligo. Although repigmentation occurs fastest with 3 x weekly treatment, the ultimate repigmentation initiation seems to depend entirely on the total number of treatments, not their frequency. However, treatment periods of more than 12 weeks may be necessary to obtain a satisfactory clinical repigmentation, particularly when vitiligo lesions are treated only 1 x or 2 x compared with 3 x weekly.
The combination treatment of 0.1% tacrolimus ointment plus the 308-nm excimer laser is superior to 308-nm excimer laser monotherapy for the treatment of UV-resistant vitiliginous lesions (P<.002). The efficacy and the good tolerance of the 308-nm excimer laser in monotherapy for treating localized vitiligo were also confirmed, but this treatment regimen should be proposed only for UV-sensitive areas.
Our study compared four treatment modalities in vitiligo patients, out of which oral minipulse of steroids (OMP) only had an adjunct value and was not very effective by itself. Narrow band UVB has a definite edge over broad band UVB and should be preferred when both options are available. NB-UVB and PUVA showed comparable efficacy.
Combination treatment with FP and UV-A is much more effective in reaching complete repigmentation than are FP and UV-A used alone, but large inter-individual differences occur. Fluticasone propionate, UV-A, and a combination of FP and UV-A seem to be safe for long-term treatment of vitiligo.
Hand-held NB-UVB devices need evaluation in a large, pragmatic RCT. This pilot trial has explored many of the uncertainties that need to be overcome before embarking on a full scale trial, including the development of a comprehensive training package and treatment protocol. The study has shown strong willingness of participants to be randomised, very good treatment adherence and repigmentation rates, and provided evidence of feasibility for a definitive trial.
Cultured autologous melanocyte transplantation is an effective treatment for stable vitiligo. Combination of NB-UVB therapy with melanocyte transplantation can accelerate repigmentation of transplanted vitiliginous areas, especially if NB-UVB is given before and after transplantation.
We propose that future vitiligo trials should include repigmentation, cosmetic acceptability of results, global assessment of the disease, quality of life, maintenance of repigmentation, stabilization of vitiligo and side-effects. International consensus among clinicians, researchers and patients is needed to establish an agreed core outcome set for future vitiligo trials.
Our study clearly shows that features of inflammation (pruritus)/autoimmunity (halo naevi, thyroid antibodies) are strongly linked to NSV, together with a familial background of vitiligo and autoimmunity.
Pre-pubertal onset vitiligo is strongly associated with personal and family history of atopy, suggesting that the predisposing immune background in vitiligo is not limited to autoimmunity, as also noted in alopecia areata. This study also suggests reconsidering the epidemiological data on sex ratio in vitiligo.
Detachment and transepidermal elimination of melanocytes following minor mechanical trauma in non lesional vitiligo skin is probably the cause of depigmentation occurring in the isomorphic response (Koebner phenomenon). We propose that transepidermal elimination of melanocytes in vitiligo should be regarded as a possible mechanism of chronic loss of pigment cells, perhaps previously damaged by another process.
DNA sequence variants in the NALP1 region are associated with the risk of several epidemiologically associated autoimmune and autoinflammatory diseases, implicating the innate immune system in the pathogenesis of these disorders.
We observed associations between generalized vitiligo and markers implicating multiple genes, some associated with other autoimmune diseases and one (TYR) that may mediate target-cell specificity and indicate a mutually exclusive relationship between susceptibility to vitiligo and susceptibility to melanoma.
Our study quantifies the burden on the quality of life caused by vitiligo and indicates specific areas of patients' lives which are most affected by the disease. Sex, number of consultations and subjective disease severity independently predict the quality of life. The quality of life impairment in women affected with vitiligo equals the impairment caused by psoriasis in our study population. These results should awake the interest of physicians in this 'cosmetic' disease, since appropriate treatment is likely to improve the quality of life of vitiligo patients.
Effective CHG levels were achieved on most skin sites after using 4% CHG; gaps in antiseptic coverage were noted at selective sites even after repeated application. Use of the 2% CHG polyester cloth resulted in considerably higher skin concentrations with no gaps in antiseptic coverage. Effective decolonization of the skin before hospital admission can play an important role in reducing risk of surgical site infections.
The rate of SSI was cut in half after the introduction of 2% CHG no-rinse cloths in the place of a povidone-iodine (Betadine) skin antiseptic in orthopaedic patients undergoing total joint procedures. Further testing using randomization comparative protocols are required to conclude that the decreased SSI was in fact a direct result of the 2% CHG protocol.
Meta-analysis of available clinical trials suggests no appreciable benefit of preoperative whole-body chlorhexidine bathing for prevention of SSI. However, most studies omitted details of chlorhexidine application. Better designed trials with a specified duration and frequency of exposure to chlorhexidine are needed to determine whether preoperative whole-body chlorhexidine bathing reduces SSI.
CHG-BW may be effective in preventing carriage, and possibly bloodstream infections, with MRSA and VRE in different ICU settings. As CHG-BW protocols, co-interventions and case mix varied widely, attribution of these effects to CHG-BW alone should be done with care. Evidence that CHG-BW reduces carriage of or infections with ARGNB is lacking.
The evidence suggests that preoperative antiseptic showers reduce bacterial colonization and may be effective at preventing SSIs. The antiseptic application method is inconsequential, and data are lacking to suggest which antiseptic solution is the most effective. Disinfectant products are often mixed with alcohol or water, which makes it difficult to form overall conclusions regarding an active ingredient. Large, well-conducted randomized controlled trials with consistent protocols comparing agents in the same bases are needed to provide unequivocal evidence on the effectiveness of one antiseptic preparation over another for the prevention of SSIs.
Tests under standardized and harmonized conditions help to choose the most efficacious agent. When a prolonged contact time is feasible, ranking of agents would be polyhexanide = octenidine > chlorhexidine > triclosan > PVP-iodine. This is consistent with the recommendations for antisepsis of acute wounds. Polyhexanide seems to be preferable for chronic wounds due to its higher tolerability. If an immediate effect is required, ranking would be octenidine = PVP-iodine>> polyhexanide > chlorhexidine > triclosan.
Until a reservoir of lead-safe housing is created, programs that educate families to reduce environmental exposure are needed. Although providing families with quantitative information regarding lead contamination may have a role in short-term efforts to prevent lead exposure, these null findings suggest that it has little benefit once BLLs are elevated.
A study of primary prevention of lead exposure showed a higher blood lead screening rate for the combined intervention groups and mean BLLs at one year of age not statistically different from the comparison group. Most homes had lead hazards. Lead education significantly increased knowledge.
These results demonstrate that lead-contaminated soil contributes to the lead burden of urban children and that abatement of lead-contaminated soil around homes results in a modest decline in blood lead levels. The magnitude of reduction in blood lead level observed, however, suggests that lead-contaminated soil abatement is not likely to be a useful clinical intervention for the majority of urban children in the United States with low-level lead exposure.
Blood lead concentrations, even those below 10 microg per deciliter, are inversely associated with children's IQ scores at three and five years of age, and associated declines in IQ are greater at these concentrations than at higher concentrations. These findings suggest that more U.S. children may be adversely affected by environmental lead than previously estimated.
Lead-contaminated house dust is a significant contributor to lead intake among urban children who have low-level elevations in blood lead. A substantial proportion of children may have blood lead levels of at least 10 micrograms/dL at dust lead levels considerably lower than current standards.
Treatment with succimer lowered blood lead levels but did not improve scores on tests of cognition, behavior, or neuropsychological function in children with blood lead levels below 45 microg per deciliter. Since succimer is as effective as any lead chelator currently available, chelation therapy is not indicated for children with these blood lead levels.
Physician awareness of a rapid diagnosis of influenza in the pediatric emergency department significantly reduced the number of laboratory tests and radiographs ordered and their associated charges, decreased antibiotic use, increased antiviral use, and decreased length of time to discharge.
When using a strategy of performing influenza testing on all patients at risk for SBI who presented to a pediatric ED during an influenza outbreak, the method of testing (POCT or ST) did not appear to significantly alter physician management, cost, or length of stay in the pediatric ED. However, if the interaction of the method of testing and the test result (positive or negative) were considered, a positive POCT for influenza was associated with a significant reduction in orders for urinalyses and urine cultures.
PCR-based methodologies offer increased sensitivity for the detection of most respiratory viruses in young children. The inclusion of PCR into diagnostic testing strategies is needed to broaden our understanding of the natural ecology of respiratory viruses and the significance of multiple infections.
Healthy children younger than one year of age are hospitalized for illness attributable to influenza at rates similar to those for adults at high risk for influenza. The rate of hospitalization decreases markedly with age. Influenza accounts for a substantial number of outpatient visits and courses of antibiotics in children of all ages.
Abnormal liver chemistries in CF are common though most of CF patients lack clinical evidence of liver disease and the severe complications of fibrosis/cirrhosis are rare. The risk of liver involvement decreases significantly with age, falling by 10% per annum for those described as having CF-related hepatobiliary disease. CF-related hepatobiliary disease is a rare occurrence after age 18.
Liver disease will have a growing impact on survival and quality of life of cystic fibrosis patients because a longer life expectancy and for this it is important its early recognition and a correct clinical management aimed at delaying the onset of complications. This review could represent an opportunity to encourage researchers to better investigate genotype-phenotype correlation associated with the development of cystic fibrosis liver disease, especially for non-CFTR genetic polymorphisms, and detect predisposed individuals. Therapeutic trials are needed to find strategies of fibrosis prevention and to avoid its progression prior to development its related complications.
Similar to other reports in medical subspecialties, non-randomized studies provided results dissimilar to randomized trials of arthroplasty vs internal fixation for mortality and revision rates in patients with femoral neck fractures. Investigators should be aware of these discrepancies when evaluating the merits of alternative surgical interventions, especially when both randomized trials and non-randomized comparative studies are available.
Contradiction and initially stronger effects are not unusual in highly cited research of clinical interventions and their outcomes. The extent to which high citations may provoke contradictions and vice versa needs more study. Controversies are most common with highly cited nonrandomized studies, but even the most highly cited randomized trials may be challenged and refuted over time, especially small ones.
Estimates of the observational association of cardiac catheterization with long-term AMI mortality are highly sensitive to analytic method. All standard risk-adjustment methods have the same limitations regarding removal of unmeasured treatment selection biases. Compared with standard modeling, instrumental variable analysis may produce less biased estimates of treatment effects, but is more suited to answering policy questions than specific clinical questions.
Oil-soluble contrast media have a therapeutic effect compared with water-soluble media and this effect is greatest for patients who have been diagnosed as having unexplained infertility. New techniques for the evaluation of tubal patency support the hypothesis that tubal "plugs" may be involved in proximal tubal blockage.
Failure to use adequately concealed random allocation can distort the apparent effects of care in either direction, causing the effects to seem either larger or smaller than they really are. The size of these distortions can be as large as or larger than the size of the effects that are to be detected.
The low prevalence of nonnutritive sucking habits and its reduction during the period studied seem to reflect a natural tendency in preschool children. Even presenting a slight reduction, the high prevalence of anterior open bite draws attention to the importance of longitudinal studies to support scientific evidences for early clinical intervention.
We conclude that a sleep-pressure numerical factor derived from the overnight polysomnogram in snoring children is associated with deficits in neurobehavioral daytime functions that is independent of respiratory disturbance and hypoxemia and suggests a significant role for disturbed sleep homeostasis in pediatric sleep-disordered breathing.
At an average of 24.9 hours, bupivacaine (0.5%) provides a significantly longer digital anesthesia time than the average 10.4 hours achieved by 2% lidocaine with epinephrine (1:100,000), which in turn provides twice as long an anesthesia time as 2% lidocaine (average, 4.9 hours).
The results confirm the multisymptom benefit of a single dose of the test syrup containing paracetamol, dextromethorphan hydrobromide, doxylamine succinate and ephedrine sulfate and support its role as an effective and convenient therapy for symptoms of nasal congestion, runny nose, cough and pain/body aches associated with the common cold and for increasing sleep quality disturbed by the common cold.
Diphenhydramine and dextromethorphan are not superior to placebo in providing nocturnal symptom relief for children with cough and sleep difficulty as a result of an upper respiratory infection. Furthermore, the medications given to children do not result in improved quality of sleep for their parents when compared with placebo. Each clinician should consider these findings, the potential for adverse effects, and the individual and cumulative costs of the drugs before recommending them to families.
In a comparison of honey, DM, and no treatment, parents rated honey most favorably for symptomatic relief of their child's nocturnal cough and sleep difficulty due to upper respiratory tract infection. Honey may be a preferable treatment for the cough and sleep difficulty associated with childhood upper respiratory tract infection.
No good evidence has demonstrated the effectiveness of over-the-counter cold medications in preschool children. Further studies are required to clarify the role of these medications in children. Certain single over-the-counter medications and combinations have been shown to reduce cold symptoms in adolescents and adults.
Approximately 1 in 10 US children uses a cough and cold medication in a given week. The especially high prevalence of use among children of young age is noteworthy, given concerns about potential adverse effects and the lack of data on the efficacy of cough and cold medications in this age group.
In newborns and infants after major digestive-tract surgery, we did not identify beneficial effects of isonitrogenous, isocaloric glutamine supplementation of parenteral nutrition. Glutamine supplementation in these patients therefore is not warranted until further research proves otherwise.
In this pilot trial, enteral Gln supplementation was well tolerated among infants with surgical gastrointestinal disease. There was no effect observed on the duration of parenteral nutrition, tolerance of enteral feeds, or intestinal absorptive or barrier function. Larger, multicenter trials in infants with surgical gastrointestinal disease are needed due to the variability in important outcome measurements.
The primary (intention to treat) analysis showed no effect on new infections or on mortality when parenteral nutrition was supplemented with glutamine or selenium. Patients who received parenteral nutrition supplemented with selenium for ≥ 5 days did show a reduction in new infections. This finding requires confirmation. Trial registration Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN87144826.
Cardiac anomalies (with duodenal atresia) and ultrashort-bowel syndrome (<40 cm) requiring long-term total parenteral nutrition, which can be complicated by liver disease (with jejunoileal atresia), are the major causes of morbidity and mortality in these patients. Use of growth factors to enhance adaptation and advances in small bowel transplantation may improve long-term outcomes.
This study demonstrates for the first time that the supply of glutamine from the apical side is of critical importance for maintaining optimal structure and function of the enterocytes. The effects are not acute or energy related. These observations have important clinical implications in the management of patients under critical care, including premature infants and patients receiving TPN, for whom lack of glutamine from the luminal side could produce mucosal dysfunction, resulting ultimately in severe atrophic/necrotic complications.
In Greece, with no formal trauma system implementation, ATLS(®) certified physicians achieve worse outcomes than their non-certified colleagues when managing trauma patients. We believe that these findings must be interpreted in the context of the National health care system. There is considerable room for improvement in our country, and further analysis is required.
Reductions in hospital case fatality have made an important contribution to reaching the Health of the Nation targets. The contribution of hospital care in the reduction of accident mortality should be taken into account in decisions about the allocation of resources to preventive and curative services.
The study was ended early due to dropout and smaller than expected decline in FEV(1). Patients were more satisfied with vest and FD. The longitudinal decline in FEF(25-75%) was faster in vest; we found no other difference in lung function decline, taken together this warrants further study. The slow decline in FEV(1) illustrates the difficulty with FEV(1) decline as a clinical trial outcome.
VRP 1 physiotherapy is as effective as AD with respect to sputum elimination. In opposite to other methods not requiring a helping person it is simple to teach and to learn. It may be performed by young children (> or = 3 years) and adults, also in combination with inhalation. Thus, VRP 1 appears to be a real enrichment in physiotherapy.
Use of HFCWO in combination with aerosolized DTPA did not result in increased central deposition as compared with aerosolized DTPA administered after SCPT. Further study is required to determine if combining HFCWO with aerosolized medications can be modified to improve peripheral deposition.
Compared with no treatment, benznidazole treatment was associated with reduced progression of Chagas disease and increased negative seroconversion for patients presenting with nonacute disease and no heart failure. These observations indicate that a randomized, controlled trial should now be conducted.
Our findings support the use of additional criteria to produce clinically relevant prevalence data. Co-morbidity should receive special attention due to its amplification of both need for psychiatric care and severity of impairment. Finally, our results show disturbed young adults to be severely undertreated.
Although prevalences of more than 21% for DISC-C- and DISC-P-derived diagnoses seem high, many adolescents with DSM-III-R diagnoses functioned quite well. The prevalence of any DSM-III-R diagnosis based on the DISC-C or DISC-P, in combination with the criterion for a definite case, was 7.9%.
Transfusion of stored leukodepleted red cells to euvolemic, anemic, critically ill patients has no clinically significant adverse effects on gastric tonometry or global indexes of tissue oxygenation. These findings do not support the use of fresh red cells in critically ill patients.
In patients undergoing cardiac surgery, transfusion of red cells that had been stored for more than 2 weeks was associated with a significantly increased risk of postoperative complications as well as reduced short-term and long-term survival.
RBCs displayed significant changes in all measured indices of oxidative and inflammatory stress during a storage period of 35 days except for AT. The data suggest a possible rationale behind the observation that aging blood products may increase the risk of complications following surgery and blood transfusion.
This multicenter observational study reveals the common occurrence of anemia and the large use of blood transfusion in critically ill patients. Additionally, this epidemiologic study provides evidence of an association between transfusions and diminished organ function as well as between transfusions and mortality.
As immunisation against influenza A virus is safe and provokes an adequate antibody response in patients with cystic fibrosis, it is concluded that patients with cystic fibrosis should be offered immunisation at the beginning of each influenza season. Rapid diagnostic tests and the use of antiviral drugs may have a prophylactic role in minimising lung damage.
Although there were no differences in the seasonal occurrences and distributions of polymerase chain reaction-detected respiratory viruses, acute respiratory illnesses were frequently associated with increased lower respiratory tract morbidity in young children with cystic fibrosis.
There appears to be an analgesic effect or a powerful placebo effect associated with both acupuncture and sham acupuncture. There was a medium treatment effect associated with the acupuncture, which suggests that it may be superior to sham acupuncture. This observation, along with the limited power, indicates that a larger, more definitive randomized controlled trial using a similar design is warranted.
The therapeutic efficacy of rTMS was not demonstrated when rTMS was applied to the hand motor cortical area in patients with chronic neuropathic pain at multiple sites in the body, including the lower limbs, trunk, and pelvis. However, the results for worst pain reduction suggest that further studies are required in which rTMS is applied with a more intensive stimulation protocol.
Thermal sensory relays are potentially dysfunctioning in chronic neuropathic pain secondary to sensitisation or deafferentation-induced disinhibition. By acting on these structures, motor cortex stimulation could relieve pain and concomitantly improve innocuous thermal sensory discrimination.
Robotic-assisted training was equivalent to conventional walk training in patients with a variety of nonprogressive spinal cord pathologies for walking speed, but the need for orthotics and assistive devices was reduced, perhaps because of greater leg strength in the robotic group.
This study demonstrates the feasibility of using rehabilitation nurses to provide tactile therapy to patients with an SCI and suggests a model for controlled clinical trials examining the efficacy of massage therapies. Although efficacy was difficult to assess, BCM was safe and well tolerated.
This study provides preliminary evidence that EMG biofeedback has value when added to an exercise intervention to reduce shoulder pain in manual wheelchair users with SCI. These findings indicate that EMG biofeedback may be valuable in remediating musculoskeletal pain as a secondary condition in SCI. This preliminary conclusion will need to be studied and verified through future work.
Despite this small opportunistic sample, the prevalence of CAM among individuals with SCI appears similar to that in the general population. A placebo-controlled trial is needed to evaluate the efficacy of various therapies in the SCI population. The fact that the most effective therapy, massage, was not frequently used suggests the need for more awareness of and research into this technique.
Overall, there was a small but statistically significant reduction in the prevalence of active trachoma between surveys, but differences between the 3 intervention arms were not statistically significant. Awareness of trachoma control increased in all communities, but there was little change in behavior associated with the transmission of Chlamydia trachomatis. It is therefore unlikely that observed reductions in active trachoma were solely due to health education.
We found strong evidence to support F and E components of the SAFE strategy. Though limitations included moderate to high heterogenity, low study quality, and the lack of standard definitions, these findings support the importance of WASH in trachoma elimination strategies and the need for the development of standardized approaches to measuring WASH in trachoma control programs.
The results show that the administration of RF-bic solution was superior in normalizing acidosis of patients without the risk of alkalosis. The data also suggest that the use of RF-bic during CVVH reduces cardiovascular events in critically ill patients with acute renal failure, particularly those with previous cardiovascular disease or heart failure.
The standardized urea clearance Kt/V is a valuable tool in the treatment of acute renal failure. Higher Kt/V levels were associated with a better control of uremia and acid-base balance. However, there were no differences in the clinical course, patient survival, percentage of patients with or without renal failure who were transferred from the intensive care unit, or Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III scores.
HVHF with lactate-buffered replacement fluids induces iatrogenic hyperlactatemia. However, such hyperlactatemia only has a mild and transient acidifying effect. A decrease in chloride and strong ion difference effective and the removal of unmeasured anions all rapidly compensate for this effect.
The degree of correction of acidosis during hemofiltration was determined by patient outcome in patients treated with lactate- and bicarbonate-based buffer solutions, but not in patients receiving acetate-buffered solution. Bicarbonate and lactate-based buffer solutions were found to be superior to acetate-based replacement fluid.
A large population of stable renal transplant recipients who are at high risk of the development of CVD (both de novo and recurrent) has been recruited into the Folic Acid for Vascular Outcome Reduction in Transplantation Trial and are likely to experience a sufficient number of events to address the primary hypothesis of the trial.
The FAVORIT trial is designed with sufficient power and follow-up time to detect a clinically relevant change in CVD risk between renal transplant recipients receiving a high or low tHcy-lowering folic acid multivitamin. Preliminary screening and baseline data support the trial's objectives.
These observations confirm previous reports of mood and cognitive impairments in adult kidney transplant recipients. Further research is needed to determine the benefit of B-vitamin supplementation and other interventions in this patient population.
Relative to high-dose folic acid, high-dose oral L-5-methyltetrahydrofolate-based supplementation does not afford improved tHcy-lowering efficacy in hemodialysis patients. The preponderance of hemodialysis patients (ie, >90%) exhibit mild hyperhomocysteinemia refractory to treatment with either regimen. This treatment refractoriness is not related to defects in folate absorption or circulating plasma and tissue distribution.
This meta-analysis of observational studies suggests that elevated homocysteine is at most a modest independent predictor of IHD and stroke risk in healthy populations. Studies of the impact on disease risk of genetic variants that affect blood homocysteine concentrations will help determine whether homocysteine is causally related to vascular disease, as may large randomized trials of the effects on IHD and stroke of vitamin supplementation to lower blood homocysteine concentrations.
In this trial, moderate reduction of total homocysteine after nondisabling cerebral infarction had no effect on vascular outcomes during the 2 years of follow-up. However, the consistent findings of an association of total homocysteine with vascular risk suggests that further exploration of the hypothesis is warranted and longer trials in different populations with elevated total homocysteine may be necessary.
The genetic studies and the prospective studies do not share the same potential sources of error, but both yield similar highly significant results-strong evidence that the association between homocysteine and cardiovascular disease is causal. On this basis, lowering homocysteine concentrations by 3 micromol/l from current levels (achievable by increasing folic acid intake) would reduce the risk of ischaemic heart disease by 16% (11% to 20%), deep vein thrombosis by 25% (8% to 38%), and stroke by 24% (15% to 33%).
Intravenous lacosamide, administered as 60- or 30-min twice-daily infusions, showed a similar safety and tolerability profile to oral lacosamide when used as replacement therapy. Results from this trial support further investigation of intravenous lacosamide at shorter infusion durations.
Inhaled NO and HV are both effective at lowering PAP and PVR in children with pulmonary hypertension after repair of congenital heart disease. The selective action of iNO on the pulmonary circulation offers advantages over HV because a decrease in cardiac output and an increase in SVR are undesirable in the postoperative period.
Inhaled NO induces significant reductions in mean pulmonary artery pressure and increases in LVAD flow in LVAD recipients with elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. We conclude that inhaled NO is a useful intraoperative adjunct in patients undergoing LVAD insertion in whom pulmonary hypertension limits device filling and output.
The delivery of gaseous nitric oxide to the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit for children undergoing cardiac surgery results in myocardial protection, improved fluid balance, and an improved postoperative intensive care unit course.
Oral citrulline supplementation safely increased plasma citrulline and arginine concentrations compared with placebo after cardiopulmonary bypass. Postoperative pulmonary hypertension did not occur in children with naturally elevated citrulline levels or elevations through supplementation. Oral citrulline supplementation may be effective in reducing postoperative pulmonary hypertension.
These studies demonstrate that inhaled NO has minimal beneficial effect on pulmonary artery pressure or cardiac output in infants after repair of atrioventricular canal. Inhaled NO is effective in decreasing PAP postoperatively in select patients with congenital heart disease and pulmonary hypertension refractory to conventional therapeutic modalities.
Protocol-based antimicrobial therapy for newly acquired Pa resulted in a lower rate of Pa recurrence but comparable hospitalization rates as compared to a historical control cohort less aggressively treated with antibiotics for new onset Pa.
Both preparations caused significant bronchoconstriction in the HR group, and the preservative-containing IV preparation caused more bronchospasm in LR group than the preservative-free solution. Heightened airway reactivity in children with CF places them at risk of bronchospasm from inhalation therapy.
i.v. antibiotic therapy in CF patients with meropenem/tobramycin is as effective as with ceftazidime/tobramycin regarding lung function, microbiological sputum burden and systemic inflammatory status. Hepato-biliary function should be monitored carefully during i.v. treatment, possibly important in CF patients with pre-existing liver disease.
The administration of tobramycin, 300 mg bid, in a 28-day off/28-day on regimen produced low serum tobramycin concentrations, reducing the potential for systemic toxicity. High sputum concentrations ensure efficacious antibiotic levels at the site of the infection. Inhaled tobramycin significantly improved the therapeutic ratio over that of parenteral aminoglycosides.
Assuming that the percentage of reduction in hospital days observed in the US trials would also occur in the Canadian clinical setting, use of TOBI would reduce the use of health care services, particularly hospital days, and lead to substantial savings in direct medical costs that would offset its acquisition price. Whether this reduction actually occurs after TOBI enters the Canadian market is a subject for future investigation.
Effects on respiratory symptoms were modest; however, FEV(1) improvements and bacterial density reductions support a possible role for AZLI in these relatively healthy patients.
The reduced elimination rate in OD may either be caused by circadian pharmacokinetic behaviour of tobramycin or indicates early renal damage caused by high tobramycin doses not detected by biochemical measurements. However, results of our previous work suggest that OD tobramycin may be less nephrotoxic. The higher V1 in children implies that a relative higher tobramycin dose in these patients is needed for the same target peak serum concentration.
The most important PK/PD parameter for clinical outcome in CF patients was C(max)/MIC. Outcome prediction of AUC(24)/MIC was dependent on the regimen. The increase of P. aeruginosa resistance after once-daily administration is linked to a long dosing interval. More and larger studies are needed to optimize the dosing regimen for maximum clinical outcome with minimum resistance development.
Once daily administration of aminoglycosides in patients without pre-existing renal impairment is as effective as multiple daily dosing, has a lower risk of nephrotoxicity, and no greater risk of ototoxicity. Given the additional convenience and reduced cost, once daily dosing should be the preferred mode of administration.
The study provides evidence that intervention for social anxiety disorder that emphasizes exposure and social skills is efficacious. Results indicate that clinical improvement is sustained for at least 6 months, and that, overall, adolescents with social anxiety disorder do not respond to non-specific treatment. This investigation has public health implications by demonstrating that effective interventions can be transported to nonclinical settings.
The study supports the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of a cognitive-behavioral intervention targeting co-occurring physical distress and anxiety in youth presenting for medical treatment. Such an approach has the potential to exert broad impact on children's dysfunction and to minimize exposure to invasive, ineffective, and costly medical procedures and treatments.
Cognitive-behavioral group interventions reduced symptoms of anxiety and depression in school-age children with anxiety disorders. Concurrent parental involvement enhanced the effect on coping strategies. Further investigation is needed to corroborate the effectiveness of such short-term interventions and the maintenance of treatment effects.
Initial results from this randomized, designed treatment study suggest that agroup CBT intervention specifically developed for children with ASD may be effective in decreasing anxiety. Limitations of this study include small sample size, lack of an attention control group, and use of outcome measures normed with typically developing children
School-based early intervention appears to offer an effective means of reducing anxious symptomatology in economically disadvantaged populations. The school environment offers promise as a means of extending the reach of efficacious interventions for mental health to underserviced populations.
The sample of children with AS in this study presented with a profile of anxiety similar to a sample of clinically diagnosed anxious children. The intervention was endorsed by parents as a useful programme for children diagnosed with Asperger syndrome and exhibiting anxiety symptoms, and active parent involvement enhanced the usefulness of the programme. Limitations of the study and future research are discussed.
Social anxiety disorder is an early, adolescent-onset disorder related to a substantially and consistently increased risk for subsequent depression. The demonstration of proximal and particularly distal predictors for increased depression risks requires further exploration to identify their moderator or mediator role. Along with previous evidence that comorbid SAD is associated with a more malignant course and character of depression, these results call for targeted prevention with the aim of reducing the burden of SAD and its consequences.
Anxiety disorders in childhood are predictors of a range of psychiatric disorders in adolescence. It appears that children meriting a well-defined diagnosis are missed by the current rules for the diagnosis of GAD. Future studies should examine whether OAD deserves reconsideration as a nosological entity.
The quality of the child-therapist alliance assessed early in treatment may be differentially associated with symptom reduction at mid- and post-treatment. Results underscore the importance of assessing the relation between alliance and outcome over the course of therapy to clarify the role the child-therapist alliance plays in child psychotherapy.
From an evidence-based perspective, cognitive-behavioral therapy is currently the treatment of choice for anxiety and depressive disorders in children and adolescents. Future research in this area will need to focus on comparing cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy with other treatments, component analyses, and the application of exportable protocol-driven treatments to divergent settings and patient populations.
Roughly 1 in 10 children have at least one DSM-IV disorder, involving a level of distress or social impairment likely to warrant treatment. Comorbidity reported between some childhood diagnoses may be due to the association of both disorders with a third. Diagnoses of conduct disorder and ADHD may be missed if information is not sought from teachers about children's functioning in school.
CBT has been modified for individuals with ASD by adding intervention components typically associated with applied behaviour analysis (e.g. systematic prompting and differential reinforcement). Future research involving a component analysis could potentially elucidate the mechanisms by which CBT reduces anxiety in individuals with ASD, ultimately leading to more efficient or effective interventions.
Rating scales can reliably, validly, and efficiently measure youths' internalizing psychopathology. They have great utility in research, treatment planning, and accountability in practice. However, the user must define the goals of measurement, consider the construct the scale measures, and use the scale within its defined capabilities. The use of more than one scale for a task is recommended.
The modular approach outperformed usual care and standard evidence-based treatments on multiple clinical outcome measures. The modular approach may be a promising way to build on the strengths of evidence-based treatments, improving their utility and effectiveness with referred youths in clinical practice settings. Trial Registration  clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: 
Limitations in hand function are common in all types of CP, but characteristics of the disability vary considerably between different CP subtypes. The MACS classification is useful to evaluate how well children can handle objects in daily activities. The House functional classification describes grip function in each hand separately; the Zancolli classification of finger and wrist extension and the classification of thumb-in-palm deformity according to House give an estimate of dynamic spasticity. All these classifications were shown to be useful in a population-based health care program, but further studies of the psychometric properties are required.
This systematic review confirms that overall the Bobath Concept is not superior to other approaches. Based on best evidence synthesis, no evidence is available for the superiority of any approach. This review has highlighted many methodological shortcomings in the studies reviewed; further high-quality trials need to be published. Evidence-based guidelines rather than therapist preference should serve as a framework from which therapists should derive the most effective treatment.
The Delphi study was an effective research tool, maintaining anonymity of responses and exploring expert opinions on the Bobath concept. The experts stated that Bobath's work has been misunderstood if it is considered as the inhibition of spasticity and the facilitation of normal movement, as described in some literature. They agreed that the Bobath concept was developed by the Bobaths as a living concept, understanding that as therapists' knowledge base grows their view of treatment broadens.
Parents and medical professionals have similar perceptions of gross motor, self-care, quality of life, and overall status for children with CP and these perceptions correlate with standard outcome measures, but often do not agree with children's ratings. Longitudinal use of subjective status ratings from parents and professionals should contribute to establishing minimal clinically important differences for CP outcome measures.
This study supports the consensus that dental extractions can be performed without modification of oral anticoagulant treatment. Local hemostasis with an absorbable oxidized cellulose mesh, tranexamic acid, and sutures is the more cost efficient of the 2 methods compared; however, autologous fibrin glue has an important role in patients unable to use a mouthwash effectively.
Our results suggest that there is slight but significant increase in the incidences of postextraction bleeding in patients receiving warfarin. Although absolute incidence was low in both groups, the bleeding risk is not negligible.
This study found a low risk of bleeding for tooth extractions in patients with liver cirrhosis, INRs of 2.50 or less, and platelet counts of 30,000/mm(3) or greater. Blood transfusions were not needed, and in the case of postoperative bleeding, the use of local hemostatic measures was satisfactory.
Adherence to both national guidelines and 2012 World Gastroenterology Organization guidelines for the management of acute diarrhea in adult was limited among tertiary hospital physicians. The findings suggest nationwide education and effective health policies are needed to improve medical practice and reduce the unnecessary burden on the healthcare system.
Smectite may be a useful adjunct to rehydration therapy in treating acute paediatric gastroenteritis. However, the results of this meta-analysis should be interpreted with caution as most of the included studies had important limitations. Cost-effectiveness analyses should be undertaken before routine pharmacological therapy with smectite is recommended.
Both suicidal and nonsuicidal self-harm persisted in depressed adolescents receiving treatment in the ADAPT study. A history of nonsuicidal self-injury prior to treatment is a clinical marker for subsequent suicide attempts and should be as carefully assessed in depressed youths as current suicidal intent and behavior.
Side effects were not associated with noncompliance. Nonadherence with taking medications was associated with ODD in the adolescents and problematic family functioning on FACES II. The psychiatrist, who was blind to treatment condition, guessed the subjects' medication assignments with high accuracy. Thus, because of expectancy bias, the data support the use of blind independent evaluators for rating changes in medication trials.
In this naturalistic follow-up study, there was high utilization of mental health interventions. In addition, a substantial number of subjects met criteria for anxiety and/or depressive disorders 1 year after treatment. Investigation of duration of acute treatments and evaluation of maintenance treatments for school refusal is needed.
The authors detected a weak CBT effect, possibly rendered less significant by the small sample and likely attenuated by the unexpected reduction in SSRI pharmacotherapy in the CBT condition. Small, incremental improvements over monotherapy, such as observed in this study, most likely represent the new norm in adolescent depression treatment research.
The lack of a significant between-group difference in depressive symptoms and in drinking may reflect limited medication efficacy, or may result from limited sample size or from efficacy of the CBT/MET psychotherapy. Large multi-site studies are warranted to further clarify the efficacy of SSRI medications in this adolescent MDD/AUD population.
These findings suggest long-term efficacy for an acute phase trial of manualized CBT/MET for treating comorbid MDD/AUD adolescents. Large multi-site studies are warranted to further clarify the efficacy of CBT/MET therapy among various adolescent and young adult comorbid populations.
The ADTSQ is a useful measure of consumer satisfaction for depressed adolescents and their parents. CBT, SRT and COMBINED were shown to have high consumer satisfaction with CBT's higher skills training content reflected in the participants' reports. Individual counselling was perceived as the most favourable choice of treatment for adolescent depression. Although limitations associated with the measurement of consumer satisfaction and of the study are acknowledged, it is recommended that the inclusion of consumer satisfaction measures be considered in clinical trials that examine treatment efficacy.
Fluoxetine and CBT had greater efficacy than did placebo and CBT on one but not both depression measures and was not associated with greater decline in self-reported substance use or CD symptoms. The CBT may have contributed to higher-than-expected treatment response and mixed efficacy findings, despite its focus on SUD.
Younger and less severely impaired adolescents are likely to respond better to acute treatment than older, more impaired, or multiply comorbid adolescents. Family income level, cognitive distortions, and severity of depression may help clinicians to choose among acute interventions, but combined treatment proved robust in the presence of moderators.
ASAP may be useful to retain adolescent participants and as a safety intervention in placebo-controlled trials. In clinical practice ASAP-like procedures may be useful to encourage adherence in patients engaging in long-term treatment. Clinical trial registration information-URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: 
In adolescents with moderate to severe depression, treatment with fluoxetine alone or in combination with CBT accelerates the response. Adding CBT to medication enhances the safety of medication. Taking benefits and harms into account, combined treatment appears superior to either monotherapy as a treatment for major depression in adolescents.
In this open trial, the 6-month morbid risks for suicidal events and for reattempts were lower than those in other comparable samples, suggesting that this intervention should be studied further. Important treatment targets include suicidal ideation, family cohesion, and sequelae of previous abuse. Because 40% of events occurred with 4 weeks of intake, an emphasis on safety planning and increased therapeutic contact early in treatment may be warranted.
When vigorously treated with a combination of medication and psychotherapy, adolescents with depression who have recently attempted suicide show rates of improvement and remission of depression that seem comparable to those observed in nonsuicidal adolescents with depression.
This is the first study to examine the outcome to maintenance treatment for adolescents with major depression. Although the sample size was small, the findings suggest a possible benefit of maintenance treatment with sertraline over placebo. A larger clinical trial with adequate power is required to confirm or disconfirm these findings.
Fluoxetine did not demonstrate greater efficacy than placebo for treating either the depressive symptoms or the cannabis-related symptoms of our study sample of comorbid adolescents and young adults. The lack of a significant between-group difference in these symptoms may reflect limited medication efficacy, or may result from efficacy of the CBT/MET psychotherapy or from limited sample size.
There was clear improvement in clinical symptoms, functioning, and global response with ALGO treatment. The magnitude of the improvement was greater in children and adolescents treated with the ALGO program compared with a historical cohort. These data support the need for controlled studies in larger populations examining the effects of algorithm-driven disease management programs on the clinical outcomes of children with mental illness.
Among depressed women with moderate baseline depression and anxiety, medication was superior to CBT at 6 months, but the difference was not sustained at 1 year. Among women with severe depression, there was no significant treatment group difference at 6 months, but CBT was superior to medication at 1 year.
Combined treatment with CBT and antidepressant medication may be more advantageous for adolescents whose depression is comorbid with other disorders. Given the additional costs of adding CBT to medication, consideration of moderators in clinical decision making can contribute to a more personalized and effective approach to treatment.
For adolescents with depression not responding to an adequate initial treatment with an SSRI, the combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and a switch to another antidepressant resulted in a higher rate of clinical response than did a medication switch alone. However, a switch to another SSRI was just as efficacious as a switch to venlafaxine and resulted in fewer adverse effects.
Since predictors of suicidal adverse events also predict poor response to treatment, and many of these events occurred early in treatment, improving the speed of response to depression, by targeting of family conflict, suicidal ideation, and drug use may help to reduce their incidence. The relationship of venlafaxine and of benzodiazepines to self-harm events requires further study and clinical caution.
Continued treatment for depression among treatment-resistant adolescents results in remission in approximately one-third of patients, similar to adults. Eventual remission is evident within the first 6 weeks in many, suggesting that earlier intervention among nonresponders could be important.
These preliminary findings suggest that compared to non-depressed adolescents with ADHD and SUD, those with co-occurring MDD have more severe substance use at baseline and throughout treatment. Such youth may require interventions targeting depression.
Considerable advances have been made in our knowledge of early-onset depression. Nevertheless, further research is needed in understanding the pathogenesis of childhood mood disorders. Toward this end, studies aimed at elucidating mechanisms and interrelationships among the different domains of risk factors are needed.
In the acute treatment of adult psychiatric outpatients with major depressive disorder, patient compliance with combined therapy matches compliance with psychotherapy alone. Combined therapy is more efficacious than psychotherapy alone. However, these results depend on severity and chronicity. Combined therapy outperformed psychotherapy in moderate chronic depression only. No differences were found in mild and moderate non-chronic depression. No data were found for mild chronic depression and for severe depression.
Adding CBT to antidepressants confers limited advantage for the treatment of an episode of depression in adolescents. The variation in sampling and methodology between studies, as well as the small number of trials, limits the generalisability of the findings and any conclusions that can be drawn. Future studies should examine predictors of response to treatment as well as clinical components that may affect outcome.
The three axis V scales can be scored reliably. The Global Assessment of Relational Functioning Scale and the Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale evaluate different constructs. These findings support the validity of the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale as a scale of global psychopathology; the Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale as a measure of problems in social, occupational, and interpersonal functioning; and the Global Assessment of Relational Functioning Scale as an index of personality pathology. The authors discuss further refinement and use of the three axis V measures in treatment research.
These preliminary findings support the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of 12 weeks of IPT-A in acutely depressed adolescents in reducing depressive symptoms and improving social functioning and interpersonal problem-solving skills. Because it is a small sample consisting largely of Latino, low socioeconomic status adolescents, further studies must be conducted with other adolescent populations to confirm the generalizability of the findings.
Psychological treatment combined with antidepressant therapy is associated with a higher improvement rate than drug treatment alone. In longer therapies, the addition of psychotherapy helps to keep patients in treatment. Further studies are needed to investigate whether the improvement in response attributable to the combination of drug treatment and psychotherapy can be achieved by a combination of pharmacotherapy and a compliance-enhancing intervention.
Despite some promising data concerning the use of SSRIs in the treatment of adolescent depression, caution is warranted until the long-term safety of these agents can be demonstrated. Insufficient data are available to judge even the short term merits of these agents in prepubertal children. There is no evidence to support the use of tricyclics in this population.
This is the first randomized, controlled trial of a psychosocial intervention with adolescents with major depressive disorder and conduct disorder. Although the CWD-A appears to be an effective acute treatment for depression in adolescents with multiple disorders, findings emphasize the need to improve long-term outcomes for depressed adolescents with psychiatric comorbidity and imply that interventions for comorbid populations focus directly on each specific disorder.
Antidepressants of all types showed limited efficacy in juvenile depression, but fluoxetine might be more effective, especially in adolescents. Studies in children and in severely depressed, hospitalised or suicidal juvenile patients are needed, and effective, safe and readily accessible treatments for juvenile depression are urgently required.
This part of the guidelines is intended to assist primary care clinicians in the identification and initial management of depressed adolescents in an era of great clinical need and a shortage of mental health specialists but cannot replace clinical judgment; these guidelines are not meant to be the sole source of guidance for adolescent depression management. Additional research that addresses the identification and initial management of depressed youth in primary care is needed, including empirical testing of these guidelines.
In ventilated VLBWI, the correlation between mainstream ETCO(2) and PaCO(2) is good, but the agreement is poor and negatively influenced by the severity of pulmonary disease. Capnography is feasible in ELBWI. ETCO(2) should not replace PaCO(2) measurements in ventilated VLBWI, but may have a role to detect trends of PaCO(2).
We have found the SNOT-22 to be valid and easy to use. It can be used to facilitate routine clinical practice to highlight the impact of chronic rhinosinusitis on the patient's quality of life, and may also be used to measure the outcome of surgical intervention. The minimally important difference allows us to interpret scores in a clinical context, and may help to improve patient selection for surgery.
Fluticasone and beclomethasone aqueous nasal sprays are effective in treating the symptoms of severe nasal polyps. There was some evidence that the group treated with FPANS responded more quickly to intervention and that the magnitude of the response was greater than in the group receiving beclomethasone.
The majority of patients with steroid dependent ileocaecal Crohn's disease may be switched to budesonide controlled ileal release capsules 6 mg without relapse, resulting in a sharp decrease in glucocorticosteroid side effects similar to placebo, and with an increase in plasma cortisol levels.
In the present study, relapse rate and time to relapse were similar in the patients treated with budesonide CIR, 6 mg daily or 3 mg daily or with placebo, throughout 12 months. This is in contrast to the two previous trials with identical design, where a significant effect of budesonide CIR in prolonging the median time to relapse was found. Possible reasons for the negative results of the present study include small sample size, and the fact that there was a high placebo response.
Treatment with budesonide is associated with better preserved bone mass compared with prednisolone in only the corticosteroid-naive patients with active ileocecal Crohn's disease. In both the corticosteroid-free and corticosteroid-dependent groups, budesonide and prednisolone were equally effective for up to 2 years, but budesonide caused fewer corticosteroid side effects.
Use of an induction dose of budesonide followed by a budesonide taper resulted in a trend to higher rates of clinical remission and a decrease in inflammation, without an increase in steroid-associated side effects. Budesonide was also useful for patients with ileocolonic disease.
Budesonide (9 mg/day) was numerically, but not statistically, more effective than Eudragit-L-coated mesalamine (4.5 g/day) in patients with mildly to moderately active CD. Budesonide (9 mg/day), administered once daily, was as effective as the standard (3 times daily) regimen.
The recommendations and algorithm presented here aim to assist the clinician in differentiating childhood UC from CD. We hope the recommendations in this report will reduce variability among practitioners in how they use the terms "ulcerative colitis," "Crohn disease," and "indeterminate colitis." The authors hope that progress being made in genetic, serological, and imaging studies leads to more reliable phenotyping.
Considerable variation exists in the attitudes, beliefs, and stated practices relating to the management of oxygen therapy in the ICU. These data are amenable to quantitative description and illustrate the necessity for documentation of actual practice and development of support systems for decision-making in this and similar areas.
There is no single test to diagnose the etiology of meningitis in children promptly and accurately. The finding of leukocyte aggregation in CSF might be of value as a sensitive adjunctive screening tool for the timely diagnosis of bacterial meningitis, recognizing that it has low specificity and potential practical limitations.
One dose of LAIV provided clinically significant protection against influenza in young children previously unvaccinated against influenza; 2 doses provided additional protection. Protection after 2 doses in year 1 persisted through a second season without revaccination. LAIV excipients were not a major contributor to reactogenicity. These benefits provide support for increased use of LAIV in children > or =2 years of age.
Among young children, live attenuated vaccine had significantly better efficacy than inactivated vaccine. An evaluation of the risks and benefits indicates that live attenuated vaccine should be a highly effective, safe vaccine for children 12 to 59 months of age who do not have a history of asthma or wheezing. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
the VFC program is critical to ensuring financially vulnerable children have access to vaccination. Manufacturers, distributors, and public health officials should deliver VFC influenza vaccine to providers as quickly as possible. Pediatric healthcare providers should increase efforts to vaccinate all populations, especially the VFC population, in later months.
In the era of PNSP, restricted use of antibiotic chemoprophylaxis for recurrent AOM was not associated with significantly increased rates of new onset AOM episodes or tube placement in the first 24 months of life. Total antibiotic days were also significantly reduced in Cohort 2 during Years 2 and 3.
Children receiving LAIV had a high level of protection against influenza-associated AOM when compared with placebo or TIV. This was most evident in children older than 2 years, for whom LAIV is indicated. LAIV recipients who contracted breakthrough influenza illness despite vaccination developed AOM at a significantly lower rate than did unvaccinated children who developed influenza.
After heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine introduction, national rates of otitis media visits declined significantly in children < 2 years old. Persistence of this trend will produce a significant reduction of the otitis media burden and further enhance the cost-effectiveness of heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
LAIV reduced the incidence of all-cause AOM compared with placebo in children. The estimated 12-month effectiveness of LAIV was comparable with 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. The effects of the vaccines will overlap somewhat; however, because pneumococcal conjugate vaccines only prevent a fraction of all pneumococcal AOM and influenza-associated AOM can be caused by other pathogens, LAIV could further reduce the incidence of AOM in children.
Adding PCV to the childhood immunization schedule was associated with a 10-fold greater reduction in pneumonia and a 100-fold greater reduction in otitis media than the previously reported reduction in culture-confirmed invasive pneumococcal diseases of 1.3 episodes per 1000 children aged <2 years. Although additional studies are needed to confirm the impact of routine immunization with PCV on pneumococcal-related disease, these results suggest that its impact is substantially greater than the effects on invasive disease alone.
LAIV is highly effective in children <2 years of age compared with placebo and is as effective to inactivated influenza vaccine. The safety profile of LAIV is reasonable although evidence is sparse. LAIV may be considered as an option in this age group particularly during seasons with vaccine shortage.
Patients from different countries have different expectations regarding total knee arthroplasty, which are not fully explained by differences in sociodemographic factors, clinical characteristics, and pain and functional status. Australian patients had the highest expectations but, despite reporting similar outcomes and satisfaction following total knee arthroplasty, they were more likely not to want to have the surgery again under similar circumstances.
Total knee arthroplasty appears to be cost-effective in the US Medicare-aged population, as currently practiced across all risk groups. Policy decisions should be made on the basis of available local options for TKA. However, when a high-volume hospital is available, TKAs performed in a high-volume hospital confer even greater value per dollar spent than TKAs performed in low-volume centers.
Results of nucleic acid amplification tests for C. trachomatis on urine samples are nearly identical to those obtained on samples collected directly from the cervix or urethra. Although all 3 assays can also be used to test for N. gonorrhoeae, the sensitivity of the polymerase chain reaction assay in women is too low to recommend its routine use to test for gonorrhea in urine specimens.
This review reinforced conclusions in the previous review with respect to positive relationships between general research utilization and: beliefs and attitudes, and current role. Furthermore, attending conferences/in-services, having a graduate degree in nursing, working in a specialty area, and job satisfaction were also identified as individual characteristics important to research utilization. While these findings hold promise as potential targets of future research utilization interventions, there were methodological problems inherent in many of the studies that necessitate their findings be replicated in further research using more robust study designs and multivariate assessment methods.
A substantial proportion of patients with positive screening tests for gonorrhea and chlamydial infection fail to comply with follow-up recommendations and thus are likely to remain infectious. Methods must be sought to enhance patient compliance with follow-up of test results and treatment if indicated.
The collaboration Surveillance of Cerebral Palsy in Europe provides a powerful means of monitoring trends in cerebral palsy and its functional consequences. The proportion of nonwalking in children with cerebral palsy seems to be rather stable over years and across centers despite the changes that have occurred in neonatal care across Europe. As is well known and also shown in this study, walking ability varied strongly with cerebral palsy type. Additional impairments, as well as the presence of epilepsy, correlated significantly with walking ability and, thus, the walking ability can be an indicator of total disability load.
Accelerometry-based walking activity performance is significantly associated with levels of participation in mobility-based life habits for ambulatory children with CP. Evaluation of other factors and the direction of the relation within the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health is warranted to inform rehabilitation strategies.
The trials suggest that training can increase strength and may improve motor activity in people with CP without adverse effects. More rigorous studies are needed that have a greater focus on changes in activity and participation and that consider contextual factors.
Exercise has some benefits in frail older people, although uncertainty still exists with regard to which exercise characteristics (type, frequency, duration) are most effective.
Results imply that motor performance levels are only partly reflected by the motor capacity and motor capability levels in young children children with CP. Contextual factors (physical and social environment) and personal factors (such as motivation) influence the relations between capacity, capability, and performance. This information is essential in making decisions about the focus of therapy to maximize a child's independent functioning in daily life.
Classification according to MACS and timing of lesion is important to differentiate within the wide range of impairments and activity limitations. In children with congenital lesions, unimanual capacity and bimanual performance are highly determined by distal strength, supporting the additional use of impairment-based interventions.
The development of HRQOL instruments for children and adolescents has continued apace in recent years, particularly with regard to disease-specific questionnaires. Many of the instruments meet accepted standards for psychometric properties, although instrument developers should include children from the beginning of the development process and need to pay particular attention to testing sensitivity to change.
People born into families in which someone already has cerebral palsy are themselves at elevated risk, depending on their degree of relatedness. Elevated risk may extend even to third degree relatives (first cousins). The patterns of risk suggest multifactorial inheritance, in which multiple genes interact with each other and with environmental factors. These data offer additional evidence that the underlying causes of cerebral palsy extend beyond the clinical management of delivery.
All surveyed groups indicate a desire to see changes in body functions and structures (pain, mental function, strength, movement), activities and participation (communication, hand/arm use, walking, school, recreation/community life) and quality of life following therapeutic interventions for CP. These results demonstrate the multiple, varied concerns regarding CP across the spectrum of functioning and health.
The only difference that we found between the navigated and standard groups was in radiographic tunnel position measurement. The computer-assisted navigation technique in our study resulted in more accurate tunnel placement in the femur (but not the tibia) than the traditional arthroscopic technique. However, the performed standard radiographic measurements are of limited precision in principle. Functional scales and stability tests gave similar results in both groups.
Soccer is the most common cause of injury in both female and male patients, and patients undergoing revisions fare less well than those undergoing primary unilateral ACL reconstructions, as well as bilateral reconstructions. Furthermore, smokers fare less well than nonsmokers. The cumulative risk of an ACL revision or contralateral ACL reconstruction during a 5-year period is approximately 7%. For patients aged younger than 19 years, the cumulative risk is significantly higher.
In many PCL lesions, initiation of an adequate treatment regimen is delayed despite typical injury mechanisms and symptoms. In the future, a better understanding of the epidemiology of PCL injuries should enable us to diagnose the injury more reliably through a detailed history and a thorough physical and radiographic examination in the acute setting.
Early angiographic data suggest that drug-eluting devices prevent restenosis in the short term, but there is as yet no evidence of an increase in limb salvage rates or a reduction in mortality. Further large randomized controlled trials with a focus on clinical outcomes and longer follow-up are needed.
Most data regarding early thrombus removal strategies are of low quality but do suggest patient-important benefits with respect to reducing postthrombotic morbidity. We anticipate revision of these guidelines as additional evidence becomes available.
The Villalta score, combined with a venous disease-specific quality-of-life questionnaire, should be considered the "gold standard" for the diagnosis and classification of post-thrombotic syndrome.
Vancomycin is superior to TMP-SMZ in efficacy and safety when treating intravenous drug users who have staphylococcal infections. However, all treatment failures occurred in patients with MSSA infection at any site. Therefore, TMP-SMZ may be considered as an alternative to vancomycin in selected cases of MRSA infection.
Community-associated and health care-associated MRSA cases differ demographically and clinically, and their respective isolates are microbiologically distinct. This suggests that most community-associated MRSA strains did not originate in health care settings, and that their microbiological features may have contributed to their emergence in the community. Clinicians should be aware that therapy with beta-lactam antimicrobials can no longer be relied on as the sole empiric therapy for severely ill outpatients whose infections may be staphylococcal in origin.
A raised awareness of the paucity of clinical findings and a more frequent use of echocardiography as a screening method seem essential to improve the prognosis of patients with S aureus endocarditis. Involvement of the central nervous system constitutes a relative indication of early valve replacement.
Using conservative and objective outcome rating criteria, the addition of IVIG to standard therapies is of minimal but demonstrable benefit in preventing sepsis when administered prophylactically to premature low birth weight newborns, and of unequivocal benefit in preventing death when administered therapeutically for early-onset neonatal sepsis. The likelihood of newborns with sepsis living past the neonatal period was improved nearly sixfold when IVIG was administered in addition to standard therapies.
Early-onset sepsis remains an important but uncommon problem among VLBW preterm infants. Improved diagnostic strategies are needed to enable the clinician to distinguish between the infected and the uninfected VLBW neonate with symptoms and to target continued antibiotic therapy to those who are truly infected.
South African HIV-positive adults can have a near-normal life expectancy, provided that they start ART before their CD4 count drops below 200 cells/µl. These findings demonstrate that the near-normal life expectancies of HIV-positive individuals receiving ART in high-income countries can apply to low- and middle-income countries as well. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.
A daily dose of 27 mg elemental iron, containing a heme component, given in the second half of pregnancy, prevents depletion of iron stores after birth in most women. An equivalent dose of pure inorganic iron seems less effective, but the sample size in this study was too small to demonstrate significant differences between the two treatment groups.
Concern over the impact of maternal nutrition on the health of the infant has been premature. Maternal nutrition, at least in industrialised populations, seems to have only a small effect on placental and birth weights. Other possible determinants of fetal and placental growth should be investigated.
After correcting for the effect of gestational age, low plasma antioxidant activity at birth was an independent risk factor for mortality. Frequent blood cell transfusions over the first week of life are associated with an increased risk of developing BPD. This association may be causal.
This is the first prospective, controlled study demonstrating effectiveness of chemoprophylaxis for influenza outbreak control. Zanamivir prevents symptomatic, laboratory-confirmed influenza more effectively than rimantadine, is unassociated with resistant virus, and has a favorable safety profile. Zanamivir is an appropriate alternative for influenza outbreak control among institutionalized vaccinated elderly.
Given the limited number and poor quality of existing trials conducted among NH residents in this pilot study, I conclude that there is a limited body of evidence that could be used to establish quality of care standards or pay for performance criteria for drug therapy and nutritional supplements in NH. Long-term care providers face a great challenge in practicing evidence-based medicine in prescribing drugs and nutritional supplements.
The US provides faster, more flexible access to most, but not all, of the UK-approved pharmaceuticals in our sample. However, US patients have higher cost sharing than the UK and coverage is less evenly spread across the population. From a policy perspective, our study findings confirm the need to bolster the NICE fast-track initiative to decrease the amount of time it takes to appraise certain new pharmaceuticals. Also, the study findings point to the need in the US for careful monitoring of plan compliance with regulations pertaining to the Medicare drug benefit, particularly with respect to formulary restrictions and limits on cost sharing.
No preexisting medical condition was statistically associated with an increased risk for ADRs, but an association with the number of days of prophylaxis was observed. By shortening prophylaxis to 7 days, the ADR risk may be lowered to be commensurate with more expensive medications.
The sample size of our study is too limited to be fully informative and we could not detect whether combination therapy (O+Z) improves or reduces the effectiveness of oseltamivir in the treatment of influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus infection in community patients. Additional studies are needed to improve the antiviral treatment of patients infected with influenza virus.
Combination chemotherapy provided a survival advantage over single-agent treatment of mice inoculated with neurotropic H5N1 influenza virus. This strategy might be an option for the control of pandemic influenza viruses that are sensitive to amantadine. Combinations that include other drugs should be explored.
Early administration increases the benefit of anti-influenza drugs--not only the benefit of oseltamivir treatment for influenza A, but also the benefit of amantadine treatment for influenza A and oseltamivir treatment for influenza B. Oseltamivir may be less effective as a treatment for influenza B than for influenza A. A highest body temperature of > or = 39 degrees C was an indicator of a longer duration of fever.
Physicians prescribed antiviral medications to 19% of patients they diagnosed with influenza; the proportion that would have been clinically appropriate is unknown. In contrast, physicians prescribed apparently inappropriate antibiotics to 26% of these same patients, a rate that, encouragingly, decreased over time.
The pharmacokinetic profile of IFN alfa-2a is improved by pegylation, which enables less frequent administration and results in improved efficacy with a similar side-effect profile. Combination of PEG-IFN alfa-2a with RBV is associated with a greater chance of achieving a sustained virologic response in treatment-naive patients with chronic HCV, compared with unmodified IFN alfa-2a/RBV combinations. Documentation of efficacy in other conditions awaits results of controlled clinical trials.
All three interventions showed some efficacy for seasonal and post-exposure prophylaxis. However, weaknesses and gaps in the clinical evidence base are directly relevant to the interpretation of the health economic model and rendered the use of advanced statistical analyses inappropriate. These data limitations should be borne in mind in interpreting the findings of the review.
At traditionally accepted values of willingness to pay for health benefits, it is unlikely that additional research would be an efficient use of scarce resources. The only exception to this would be to examine the health-related quality of life impact of influenza in an untreated patient group. If a higher threshold value were acceptable, there are a small group of parameters that may warrant further investigation. These would, however, require comparative, potentially expensive, research studies.
Influenza burden in children is substantial and has a significant direct impact on the ill children and an indirect impact on their siblings and parents. The identified evidence regarding the burden of influenza may help inform both influenza antiviral use in children and paediatric immunisation policies in European countries.
The high proportion of influenza A viruses currently circulating in the United States demonstrating adamantane resistance highlights the clinical importance of rapid surveillance for antiviral resistance. Our results indicate that these drugs should not be used for the treatment or prophylaxis of influenza in the United States until susceptibility to adamantanes has been reestablished among circulating influenza A isolates.
If assessed from the point of view of effectiveness and efficiency, vaccines are undoubtedly the best preventive means for clinical influenza in healthy adults. However, when safety and quality of life considerations are included, parenteral vaccines have such low effectiveness and high incidence of trivial local adverse effects that the trade-off is unfavourable. This is so even when the incidence of influenza is high and adverse effect quality of life preferences are rated low. We reached similar conclusions for antivirals and NIs even at high influenza incidence levels. On current evidence we conclude in healthy adults aged 14-60 the most cost-effective option is not to take any action.
Most persons with confirmed H7N9 virus infection had severe lower respiratory tract illness, were epidemiologically unrelated, and had a history of recent exposure to poultry. However, limited, nonsustained human-to-human H7N9 virus transmission could not be ruled out in four families.
Seven to eight children aged 6 to 24 months with acute otitis media needed to be treated with antibiotics to improve symptomatic outcome at day four in one child. This modest effect does not justify prescription of antibiotics at the first visit, provided close surveillance can be guaranteed.
Among children 6 to 23 months of age with acute otitis media, treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanate for 10 days tended to reduce the time to resolution of symptoms and reduced the overall symptom burden and the rate of persistent signs of acute infection on otoscopic examination. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
For most children, delayed prescribing is not likely to have adverse longer-term consequences. Children with recurrent AOM are more likely to have poorer outcomes. Secondary analysis should be treated with caution and requires confirmation, but suggests that treating such children with antibiotics immediately may not alter longer-term outcomes.
Sixty-six percent of subjects in the WW group completed the study without ABX. Parent satisfaction was the same between groups regardless of treatment. Compared with WW, immediate ABX treatment was associated with decreased numbers of treatment failures and improved symptom control but increased ABX-related adverse events and a higher percent carriage of multidrug-resistant S pneumoniae strains in the nasopharynx at the day-12 visit. Key factors in implementing a WW strategy were (a) a method to classify AOM severity; (b) parent education; (c) management of AOM symptoms; (d) access to follow-up care; and (e) use of an effective ABX regimen, when needed. When these caveats are observed, WW may be an acceptable alternative to immediate ABX for some children with nonsevere AOM.
Children with acute otitis media benefit from antimicrobial treatment as compared with placebo, although they have more side effects. Future studies should identify patients who may derive the greatest benefit, in order to minimize unnecessary antimicrobial treatment and the development of bacterial resistance. (Funded by the Foundation for Paediatric Research and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
A single 60-mg/kg dose of azithromycin ER provides near equivalent effectiveness to a 10-day regimen of amoxicillin/clavulanate 90/6.4 mg/kg per day in the treatment of children with acute otitis media.
Our results indicate that delayed initiation of antimicrobial treatment does not worsen the recovery from acute otitis media, as measured by improvement during treatment. However, watchful waiting before the initiation of delayed antimicrobial treatment might be associated with transient worsening of a child's condition, prolongation of symptoms and economic losses.
International research organizations should support controlled intervention studies to document the impact of case management of otitis in developing countries. In addition, the efficacy of a conjugated pneumococcal vaccine to prevent otitis and its complications should be evaluated in a developing country site. Pending the results of studies, developing countries should develop primary care case management programs to diagnose and treat otitis and its associated complications.
Antimicrobial drugs have a modest but significant impact on the primary control of acute otitis media. Treatment with beta-lactamase-stable agents does not increase resolution of acute symptoms or middle ear effusion; initial therapy should be guided by considerations of safety, tolerability, and affordability, and not by the theoretical advantage of an extended antibacterial spectrum.
Although many of the studies included in this analysis are limited by bias, a cloudy, bulging, or clearly immobile tympanic membrane is most helpful for detecting AOM. The degree of erythema may also be useful since a normal color makes otitis media unlikely whereas a distinctly red tympanic membrane increases the likelihood significantly.
Washed blood transfusions in cardiac surgery reduced inflammatory biomarkers, number of transfusions, donor exposures, and were associated with a nonsignificant trend toward reduced mortality. A larger study powered to test for clinical outcomes is needed to determine whether these laboratory findings are clinically significant.
Reconstituted fresh whole blood used for the prime, throughout cardiopulmonary bypass, and for all transfusion requirements within the first 24 hours postoperatively results in reduced chest tube volume loss and improved clinical outcomes in neonatal patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
In this exploratory secondary analysis of infants undergoing two ventricular repair of congenital heart disease without aortic arch obstruction, greater intraoperative and early postoperative blood transfusion emerged as potential important risk factors for longer DMV. Future prospective clinical trials are needed to determine whether reduction in blood product administration hastens postoperative recovery after infant heart surgery.
The use of fresh whole blood for cardiopulmonary bypass priming has no advantage over the use of a combination of packed red cells and fresh-frozen plasma during surgery for congenital heart disease. Moreover, circuit priming with fresh whole blood is associated with an increased length of stay in the intensive care unit and increased perioperative fluid overload.
Reoperations in GUCH patients are mostly due to outflow tract lesions, coarctations and TOF. Perioperative risks remain important especially with cyanosis, TGA, pulmonary atresia and poor ventricular function. Therefore, close follow-up, timely referral for re-intervention and adequate perioperative management are mandatory to reduce perioperative risks and improve results.
Reoperations in ACHD are mostly due to right ventricular outflow tract lesions and were associated with a low mortality rate if performed in a center with a considerable activity and a dedicated program. Severe morbidity is relatively frequent and is generally associated with the preoperative (high hematocrit due to cyanosis, congestive heart failure, and the number of previous operations) and operative (Fontan operation/conversion and cardiopulmonary bypass duration) conditions of the patient.
CHD mortality continued to decline among both children and adults; however, differences between race-ethnicities persisted. A large proportion of CHD-related mortality occurred during infancy, although significant CHD mortality occurred during adulthood, indicating the need for adult CHD specialty management.
Death rates attributable to CHDs have fallen dramatically with advances in paediatric cardiac surgery and intensive care, largely due to decreased mortality in infants aged under 1 year. Initially, mortality in later childhood rose as infant deaths fell, suggesting death was delayed beyond infancy. Children born within the last 20 years experienced lower mortality throughout childhood.
In stable, critically ill children a hemoglobin threshold of 7 g per deciliter for red-cell transfusion can decrease transfusion requirements without increasing adverse outcomes. (Controlled-trials.com number, ISRCTN37246456 [controlled-trials.com].).
Despite the inherent limitations in the analysis of cohort studies, our analysis suggests that in adult, intensive care unit, trauma, and surgical patients, RBC transfusions are associated with increased morbidity and mortality and therefore, current transfusion practices may require reevaluation. The risks and benefits of RBC transfusion should be assessed in every patient before transfusion.
It is possible to do complex transfusion-free procedures safely for patients weighing more than 4 kg by using the low-priming volume circuit. The limiting factors of bloodless heart surgery are not preoperative hematocrit and complexity of procedure but the cardiopulmonary bypass time and the patient's body weight.
The overall survival of patients with cardiac defects corrected surgically in childhood is good compared with their estimated natural course. The increasing number of surgically treatable defects and the growing number of operations per patient reflect the increasing ability to treat more difficult cases.
Blood transfusion is associated with prolonged hospitalization of children after cardiac surgery, with biventricular patients at highest risk for increased LOS. Future studies are necessary to explore this association and refine transfusion practices.
Transfusion of packed red blood cells is associated with nosocomial infection. This association continues to exist when adjusted for probability of survival and age. In addition, mortality rates and length of intensive care unit and hospital stay are significantly increased in transfused patients.
In cardiac surgery patients, especially when more than three blood transfusions are required, leukocyte depletion by filtration results in a significant reduction of the postoperative mortality that can only partially be explained by the higher incidence of postoperative infections in the PC group.
The need for follow up of congenital heart disease in adult life is likely to grow linearly, with increasing complexity and increasing need for reinvestigation and reintervention with time. Appropriate provision should be made for adequate manpower, resources, and facilities for care of these patients.
In preschool children with moderate-to-severe intermittent wheezing, episodic use of either budesonide or montelukast early in RTIs, when added to albuterol, did not increase the proportion of EFDs or decrease oral corticosteroid use over a 12-month period. However, indicators of severity of acute illnesses were reduced, particularly in children with positive asthma predictive indices.
The serum CysLTs level in children with RSV pneumonia was higher than that in healthy children, and there was an imbalance of Th1 and Th2 cytokines in these infants, which was similar to those with asthma. Leukotriene receptor antagonist may be effective in preventing children with RSV pneumonia from evolving into asthma.
In spite of a lack of power, our results suggest that FP has a beneficial effect on symptoms and Mk on blood eosinophil level as compared to placebo. Except for a difference in one lung function parameter after 3 months between FP and Mk in favor of the FP group, this study revealed no differences between FP and Mk.
This population-based study of the epidemiological features of bronchiolitis provides evidence for intervening with high-risk infants and their families. Clinical and public health interventions are recommended for the modifiable risk factors of maternal breastfeeding and smoking and for modification of vulnerable environments where possible (eg, limiting exposure to other young children), during high-risk periods such as the first few months of life or the winter season.
ED visit rates for bronchiolitis among children younger than 2 years were stable between 1992 and 2000. The observed ED practice variation demonstrates that children are receiving medications for which there is little supporting evidence. Boys and Hispanics are at-risk groups for presentation to the ED, and Hispanics are more likely to be hospitalized.
Informing resource-poor rural populations in India about entitled services enhanced the delivery of health and social services among both low- and mid- to high-caste households. Interventions that emphasize educating resource-poor populations about entitled services may improve the delivery of such services.
In all high risk areas, maximum numbers of resistant houses were converted to P houses. These families were persuaded and convinced by the teams of interns, social workers and influential persons that polio drops did not have any side effects. They were more receptive to the advice given by medical interns compared to other staff members of the Government District Hospital because of quality of health services provided to the community. There is a need to impart correct health education regarding importance of polio drops and routine immunization more vigorously through information, education and communication (IEC) activities.
In Poland, the number of people vaccinated against B hepatitis is still very low. Therefore it is necessary to run a nationwide informative campaign and to intensify pro-vaccination activities. All this is extremely important for prevention of serious complications such as: liver failure, cirrhosis hepatis and hapatocelluar carcinoma. In the studied group it was medical procedures that became the source of infection. To guard ourselves against such situations in future it is vital to introduce and follow septic and antiseptic regime.
The SIAs had a positive impact on health and immunization systems and have created a framework on which other health care interventions for bacterial and viral diseases could be based.
This study shows up the low vaccine coverage founded and the increase of overall coverage after the intervention in 17%. We also conclude of the intervention the necesity of collaboration between Gypsies associations, health primary care centers and public health centers to carry out efficacy interventions in marginal population.
Concordant with similar studies, the immunization rate among infants of parents of lower socioeconomic status (26%) is low. An educational intervention presented to mothers in the postpartum period did not improve the rate of immunization by the age of 12 months. There are undoubtedly several reasons for this failure. Other means to improve immunization rates of infants should be developed and tested.
Additional efforts and resources are needed to continue pushing coverage up, particularly for measles immunization, in rural/hard-to-reach areas, amongst younger children, and less educated/poorer groups. In countries with low routine immunization coverage, Child Health Days are still needed.
A massive vaccination campaign approach for controlling measles in a developing region like Guangdong Province with a vast migrant population has proved effective. Comprehensive mobilization, communication with the mass media, and support from government departments were critical to the success of the campaign.
Significantly higher proportions of high-risk patients were vaccinated through the use of a preprinted nurse screening and physician order form. However, a significant percentage of patients did not receive the vaccine owing to the physician's failure to order it. In these cases, use of standing orders would have further increased vaccination rates while also promoting a more sustainable program.
This evaluation documented the significant and substantial impact of the community IMCI programme on both knowledge and practice in rural areas of Armenia. Consideration should be given to continuing and expanding this project as a complement to health sector development activities in this region.
The involvement of teachers in vaccination programs is very important for program success, especially in the enrollment and return of consent/refusal form phases of immunization initiatives. Student involvement may empower the students and encourage other students to participate in the program. Future school-based immunization initiatives can utilize these data to incorporate the most effective school-level factors into their programs to maximize the number of students immunized.
Currently, complete reporting of setting and health worker cadre in iron and folic acid supplementation in pregnancy trials remains far from ideal, limiting assessments of the applicability of the trial findings. Trialists and journals need to ensure that this information is included in trial reports by adhering to and improving current reporting standards and by not making assumptions regarding readers' knowledge of the context and of the intervention delivery mechanism.
Qualitative studies alongside randomised controlled trials remain uncommon, even where relatively complex interventions are being evaluated. Most of the qualitative studies were carried out before or during the trials with few studies used to explain trial results. The findings of the qualitative studies seemed to be poorly integrated with those of the trials and often had major methodological shortcomings.
Although MMR uptake in this cohort is high, a substantial proportion of children remain susceptible to avoidable infection, largely because parents consciously decide not to immunise. Social differentials in uptake could be used to inform targeted interventions to promote uptake.
Rates of adult immunization and cancer screening are most likely to improve when a health care organization supports performance of these activities through organizational changes in staffing and clinical procedures. Involving patients in self-management through patient financial incentives and reminders is also likely to positively affect performance.
Parental preferences regarding vaccination practices designed to reduce missed opportunities were not associated with the immunization status of their children. Although several barriers to vaccination were associated with immunization status, individual barriers were identified by a small minority of parents. Overall, parental perceptions of barriers to vaccination do not seem to be a significant cause of underimmunization in this population of children.
Government advice is a specialized form of health communication with members of the public. People engage in an active process of evaluating government advice in terms of its credibility, feasibility and costs. To improve future pandemic preparedness, attempts should be made to elicit and address common doubts and concerns people have about following recommended advice.
Our taxonomy illuminates and organises this field and identifies the range of available communication interventions to increase routine childhood vaccination uptake. We have utilised a variety of data sources, capturing information from rigorous evaluations such as randomised trials as well as experiences and knowledge of practitioners and vaccination stakeholders. The taxonomy reflects current public health practice and can guide the future development of vaccination programmes.
Views of parents who believe vaccines injured their children differ significantly from those of the general population regarding the benefits of immunization. Understanding the factors that shape this perspective can improve communication among vaccine providers, policymakers, and parents/patients.
Hypoxaemia is an under recognised complication of non-ALRI illnesses in children and in sick neonates in developing countries. Use of algorithms with high sensitivity for the recognition of hypoxaemia, and protocols for administration of oxygen to neonates, and to children with non-ALRI illnesses, might substantially reduce case fatality.
Over half the children presenting to this referral hospital with respiratory symptoms were hypoxaemic. A group of specific clinical signs seem useful in predicting hypoxaemia. The clear association of hypoxaemia with mortality suggests that the detection and effective treatment of hypoxaemia are important aspects of the clinical management of acute infections of the lower respiratory tract in children in hospital in developing regions.
About half of the normoxaemic patients with severe pneumonia developed hypoxaemia after enrolment, indicating a significant potential risk. Children hospitaled  with severe pneumonia might benefit from routine oxygen therapy. Alternatively, oxygen might be provided to those who develop hypoxaemia identified by a pulse oximeter.
In infants with all-cause respiratory distress presenting in the PED, triage respiratory rate greater than 90th percentile for age, initial venous PCO2 greater than 50 mm Hg, and initial venous pH less than 7.30 were associated with failure of HFNC therapy. A diagnosis of acute bronchiolitis was protective with respect to intubation following HFNC. This finding may help guide clinicians who use HFNC by identifying a patient population at higher risk of failing therapy.
Hypoxaemia is common among Nigerian children admitted to an emergency unit and is associated with a poor outcome irrespective of primary admission diagnosis. Provision of equipment to measure oxygen saturation and facilities for effective oxygen delivery might substantially reduce mortality.
Targeting a higher oxygen-saturation range in extremely preterm infants who were dependent on supplemental oxygen conferred no significant benefit with respect to growth and development and resulted in an increased burden on health services.
High PaO(2) occurs very rarely in neonates breathing supplemental oxygen when their pulse oxygen saturation values are 85% to 93%. This pulse oxygen saturation range also is infrequently associated with low PaO(2) values. Pulse oxygen saturation values of >93% are frequently associated with PaO(2) values of >80 mmHg, which may be of risk for some newborns receiving supplemental oxygen.
Success with maintaining the intended pulse oximeter saturation range varied substantially among centers, among patients within centers, and for individual patients over time. Most noncompliance was above the intended range. Methods for improving compliance and the effect of improved compliance on neonatal outcomes require additional research.
Oral and intravenous iron similarly increase Hgb in anemic iron-depleted ND-CKD patients not receiving ESAs. Although in comparison to oral iron, intravenous iron may result in a more rapid repletion of iron stores and greater improvement in quality of life, it exposes the patients to a greater risk of adverse effects and increases inconvenience and cost.
Video laryngoscopy, when compared with direct laryngoscopy for difficult intubations, provides a significantly better view of the cords, a higher success rate, faster intubations, and less need for optimizing manoeuvres. Therefore, we feel that the video laryngoscopy leads to a clinically relevant improvement of intubation conditions and can be recommended for difficult airway management.
The introduction of a comprehensive diagnostic surveillance strategy to exclude invasive fungal infection in high-risk patients with haematological malignancy and those undergoing transplantation can result in improvements in clinical management. There are also potential additional benefits of improved patient survival, decreased morbidity and decreased hospital stay.
No significant differences between the 2 serum tests were found. The GM assay has the advantage of being standardized among several laboratories and is incorporated in the criteria established by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycosis Study Group (EORTC/MSG), however is much more expensive. BAL GM and PCR sampling aids in IA diagnosis but needs further validation studies to differentiate between colonization and true infection in cases where serum GM or PCR are negative.
Our panfungal PCR approach allows for the highly sensitive and specific detection and identification of a wide spectrum of fungal pathogens, which provides indispensable information for managing IFDs, especially refractory or breakthrough IFDs during antifungal therapy in high-risk patients with haematologic disorders.
A negative PCR result can be used to rule out IA and to limit the need for empirical antifungal therapy; thus, it has a role in diagnosing IA infections, especially in combination with antigen testing. PCR-positive cases classified as "false positives" regularly reflect the limitations of classic microbiological procedures or restricted use of consensus clinical methods employed to classify infection.
This PCR method is very sensitive for the diagnosis of IA but is associated with a moderate rate of false positives; the GM assay exhibited poor sensitivity but high specificity. Further evaluation of PCR assays for the diagnosis of IA and other invasive fungal infections is warranted.
Evaluation of research depends on complete and accurate reporting. If medical journals adopt the checklist and the flow diagram, the quality of reporting of studies of diagnostic accuracy should improve to the advantage of clinicians, researchers, reviewers, journals, and the public.
Most patients presented with a halo sign and/or a macronodule in this large imaging study of IPA. Initiation of antifungal treatment on the basis of the identification of a halo sign by chest CT is associated with a significantly better response to treatment and improved survival.
The galactomannan assay has moderate accuracy for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. The test is more useful in patients who have hematological malignancy or who have undergone hematopoietic cell transplantation than in solid-organ transplant recipients. Further studies with attention to the impact of antifungal therapy, rigorous assessment of false-positive test results, and assessment of the utility of the test under nonsurveillance conditions are needed.
Despite high rates of prostaglandin E(1) adverse effects, elective intubation of infants for transport significantly increased the odds of a major transport complication. The risks of prophylactic intubation before the transport of otherwise stable infants on prostaglandin E(1) must be weighed carefully against possible benefits.
Patients with refractoriness to lipo-PGE1 therapy could not be predicted from initial intraluminal diameters of the ductus using echocardiography. Therefore, serial echocardiographic examinations are important to detect early findings of ductal closure. In addition, PGE1-CD is still useful as back-up therapy in such patients.
Once-daily 3g mesalazine administered as granules is superior to 9mg budesonide OD administered as capsules for achieving remission in mild-to-moderately active UC. However, it is noteworthy that remission of UC was attained in about 40% of budesonide-treated patients with a rapid onset of resolution.
Budesonide-MMX 9 mg daily is an effective and safe treatment for induction in patients with mild-moderately active UC. At the current time, it should be considered in patients after 5-ASA failure and before systemic corticosteroids. Data are still needed to understand its role and dose beyond 8 weeks, and if it should be considered first line before 5-ASAs.
The cumulative risk of CRC was high in our patients with UC; however, it was lower compared with that reported in Western European and North American studies. CRC developed approximately 15 years earlier compared with sporadic CRC patients in Hungary. Longer disease duration, extensive colitis, dysplasia, and primary sclerosing cholangitis were identified as important risk factors for developing CRC.
The incidence of DVT decreased more with aspirin plus heparin as compared to heparin alone in patients who underwent elective off-pump CABG. As regards the results obtained in this study, more studies need to be conducted to establish this strategy for prophylaxis of DVT in CABG.
Anticoagulation after Carpentier-Edwards mitral valve replacement may be best guided by individual patient characteristics. Within the limits of a retrospective analysis, these data support the routine use of aspirin alone after Carpentier-Edwards aortic valve replacement, both in the first 90 days and long-term.
Following mechanical valve replacement, combined low dose aspirin and warfarin therapy was associated with a greater reduction in thromboembolism events than warfarin therapy alone. This combined treatment was not associated with an increase in the rate of major bleeding or mortality.
Bivalirudin is a safe and effective anticoagulant for patients undergoing a wide range of cardiac surgical procedures with cardiopulmonary bypass. Procedural success rates with bivalirudin were similar to rates in patients receiving heparin anticoagulation, with no difference in mortality. Avoidance of blood stasis and attention to the intraoperative medical management of patients is critical for successful use of bivalirudin during cardiopulmonary bypass.
Anticoagulation self-management can improve INR profiles up to 2 years after prosthetic valve replacement and reduce adverse events. Current indications of prosthetic rather than biologic valve implantations may be extended if the benefit of INR self-management is shown by future studies with longer follow-up.
This study confirms the high frequency of heparin-PF4 antibodies after coronary artery bypass grafting and demonstrates a significantly higher incidence after bovine heparin. However, because some patients may seroconvert after discharge, our study may underestimate the true incidence.
There seem to be no advantages in performing early anticoagulation therapy compared with a low-antiplatelet regimen with regard to early cerebral ischemic events, bleeding, and survival. Currently there is no evidence to support the fact that warfarin is more effective than aspirin.
The intention-to-treat analysis of the results of the German Experience With Low Intensity Anticoagulation study leads to the unexpected result that despite a sophisticated reporting system, the incidence of moderate and severe TE and bleeding complications was comparably low in all INR strata and more or less within the so-called background incidence reported for an age-related "normal" population. This study supports reexamination of the intensity of anticoagulation in patients with the SJM valve.
Open-heart surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass in children (<== 10 kg) causes transient activation of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems. This study demonstrates that the use of a biocompatible perfusion system results in a lower extent of activation of fibrinolysis during CPB than the use of a conventional system.
Early onset INR self-management under oral anticoagulation after mechanical heart valve replacement enables patients to keep within a lower and smaller INR target range. The reduced anticoagulation level resulted in fewer grade III bleeding complications without increasing thromboembolic event rates.
Low-dose INR self-management is a promising tool to achieve low hemorrhagic complications without increasing the risk of thromboembolic complications. INR self-management is applicable for all patients in whom permanent anticoagulation therapy is indicated. Even INR values below 3.5 can bear the risk of bleeding complications.
The reduction in systemic heparinization was associated with thrombin formation, which may predispose to intravascular and cardiopulmonary bypass circuit clotting. Therefore, generous systemic heparinization may still be prudent despite the improved biocompatibility offered by heparin-coated surface.
Upstream therapy with fondaparinux compared with upstream enoxaparin substantially reduces major bleeding while maintaining efficacy, resulting in superior net clinical benefit. The use of standard UFH in place of fondaparinux at the time of PCI seems to prevent angiographic complications, including catheter thrombus, without compromising the benefits of upstream fondaparinux.
There was no significant difference between ASA and heparin/warfarin as primary thromboprophylaxis in the first 2 years after Fontan surgery. The thrombosis rate was suboptimal for both regimens, suggesting alternative approaches should be considered. (International Multi Centre Randomized Clinical Trial Of Anticoagulation In Children Following Fontan Procedures; 
In this first comparative study, anticoagulation with LMWHs after mechanical heart valve replacement appears feasible, provides adequate biological anticoagulation, and compares favorably with UH anticoagulation. Randomized studies are now needed to further evaluate this new therapeutic approach.
Completely heparin-coated CPB can safely be performed in combination with reduced systemic heparinization. The heparin and protamine amounts could be lowered to 35% of normal doses. Indications of more thrombin generation on CPB compared to the uncoated controls were seen, but the levels remained within low ranges in both groups. There was no evidence of thromboembolic episodes or clot formation in the extracorporeal circuits.
Mechanical heart valve patients on anticoagulant treatment who had been operated on at least 6 months earlier experienced fewer bleeding complications when maintained on a moderate intensity regimen (target INR = 3) than those on a moderate-high intensity regimen (target INR = 4). The number of thromboembolic events and vascular deaths did not differ between the two groups.
Pneumonectomy was associated with significantly higher activation of coagulation system on the seventh postoperative day than lobectomy. TAT complex, TF and E-selectin are promising markers of extensive postoperative activation of coagulation and efficacy of antithrombotic prophylaxis.
LOWERING-IT trial established that the proposed LOW-INR target is safe and feasible in low-risk patients after bileaflet aortic mechanical valve replacement. It results in similar thrombotic events and in a significant reduction of bleeding occurrence when compared to the conventional anticoagulation regimen.
In patients with mechanical heart valves and high-risk patients with prosthetic tissue valves, the addition of aspirin to warfarin therapy reduced mortality, particularly mortality from vascular causes, together with major systemic embolism. Although there was some increase in bleeding, the risk of the combined treatment was more than offset by the considerable benefit.
At doses up to 3 mg, warfarin acts on the INR through a reduction of factor VII with no effect on the fibrinolytic system, fibrinogen or von Willebrand factor. At these doses F1.2 did not document reduced coagulation activity. The observations of this study were consistent with the decision in the Post CABG Trial to increase the warfarin dose above 1 mg to achieve a distinct effect of warfarin that was less than full anticoagulation.
Fondaparinux vs. UFH thromboprophylaxis postCABG does not reduce anti-PF4/heparin antibody formation. Non-platelet-activating anti-PF4/heparin IgG antibodies generated post operatively are associated with early venous graft occlusion.
Although the overall incidence of symptomatic VTE is low in surgical patients, it is associated with significantly increased 30-day mortality. In addition to previously recognized risk factors, patients who have postoperative complications of an infectious nature, bleeding, or MI are at particular risk.
The main limiting factor in patient retention was adverse drug reactions. Patients taking lamotrigine (LTG) or gabapentin (GBP) did better than those taking carbamazepine. Seizure control was similar among groups. LTG and GBP should be considered as initial therapy for older patients with newly diagnosed seizures.
Seizure-free adults can have HRQL levels comparable with those of the general population. As seizure frequency increases, patients report more impaired HRQL, regardless of time since last seizure, gender, and comorbid status. Potential for difficulties in HRQL should be considered in clinical assessment and in evaluating treatment outcomes.
This study demonstrates that glutamate injury produced a permanent epileptiform phenotype expressed as spontaneous, recurrent epileptiform discharges for the life of the hippocampal neuronal culture. These results suggest a novel in vitro model of glutamate injury-induced epileptogenesis that may help elucidate some of the mechanisms that underlie stroke-induced epilepsy.
This investigation indicates that the glutamate injury-induced epileptogenesis model of stroke-induced epilepsy is calcium dependent and requires NMDA-receptor activation. Further, these experiments suggest that prolonged, reversible elevations in neuronal free intracellular calcium initiate the long-term plasticity changes that underlie the development of injury-induced epilepsy.
Appropriate administration of antenatal magnesium sulphate was not shown to be associated with serious maternal adverse effects, though an increase in 'minor' adverse effects and treatment cessation was shown. Larger trials are needed to determine optimal regimens, achieving maximal effectiveness with minimal adverse effects, for each antenatal indication for use. Vigilance in the use of magnesium sulphate is essential for women's safety.
Cluster trial methods provide a simple way of adjusting the analysis to take account of non-independence between babies from the same pregnancy. Random selection and analysis by pregnancy (methods (b) and (c)) have disadvantages and do not report outcomes for all of the babies in the trial. This may cause problems with incorporating trials analysed using these methods into systematic reviews.
Endovascular embolization of pulmonary arteriovenous malformations can significantly improve blood oxygen saturation and reduce serious complications such as cerebral infaction. Therefore, this kind of interventional procedure is a safe and effective treatment method with a low complication rate.
Clinical and anatomic evaluation after pulmonary AVM embolization is important to detect persistent or reperfused lesions and enlarging lesions, with the latter more common. Patients with persistent, reperfused, or enlarging lesions often have symptoms, but a significant minority of patients are asymptomatic. More frequent assessment may improve detection before the onset of symptoms.
Patients with diffuse pulmonary AVMs are at increased risk of neurologic complications. Transcatheter embolotherapy does not significantly improve the profound hypoxia, but it may reduce the risk of neurologic complications. Antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended for bacteremic procedures to prevent brain abscess. These patients can live for many years and lead productive lives. We do not recommend lung transplantation because survival with disease is difficult to predict and we have observed a perioperative transplant death.
The high reperfusion rate in the FAE group was mainly due to the use of large 0.035-inch coils alone. Although more coils are needed, VSE can be used to treat PAVMs with a venous sac safely and achieve long-term efficacy.
Coil embolotherapy is highly efficacious, with no statistically significant difference between platinum and stainless-steel coils. The slightly higher proportion of sustained occlusion with stainless-steel coils may be partly explained by the larger mean feeding artery size in the platinum group. The study is limited by the small sample size of the platinum group.
DSBs and GVBs provide immediate cross-sectional occlusion of PAVM and are equally effective in "curing" the PAVM. The DSBs remain inflated 2-4 years after placement provided isoosmotic contrast material is used to inflate them and volume recommendations are adhered to. No early or late migration of the DSB or GVB occurs, provided they are securely placed.
Among our patients with PAVFs, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia was observed in more than half and neurologic complications in more than one third. Because of the considerable risk of neurologic and other complications, definitive treatment should be considered in patients with PAVFs. Embolization is currently the preferred treatment in most patients. Frequent follow-up of treated patients is necessary because PAVFs tend to increase both in number and in size over time.
Schools rely on parents to inform them about a TBI, and rarely receive information on possible long-term sequelae. At hospital discharge, health professionals should provide schools with information about TBI and possible long-term impairments, so that children returning to school receive appropriate support.
Antidepressant-antipsychotic cotreatment was superior to monotherapy with either drug class in the acute treatment of psychotic depression. These results support recent treatment guidelines, but more studies are needed to assess specific combinations and maintenance/relapse-prevention efficacy.
While a substantial percentage of medication-resistant patients respond to ECT, clinical outcome in this group is inferior to that of patients without established medication resistance. The predictive power of medication resistance is generalizable across diverse clinical settings, particularly for heterocyclic antidepressants, which perhaps suggests an overlap in the mechanisms of actions of ECT and this medication class.
We found evidence of familial aggregation of IM that warrants genome-wide association studies on IM disease etiology, especially to examine commonalities with causal pathways in other Epstein-Barr virus-related diseases.
Despite consistent and uniform acceptance in the medical literature that SCT in the setting of IM should be reserved for patients with impending airway obstruction, corticosteroids continue to be used on a much broader scale at this tertiary care institution. This observation suggests that clinicians see value in SCT for treatment of IM beyond the classically accepted reasons. Moreover, despite previous reports of possible adverse consequences of SCT in IM, our review failed to demonstrate any such trend.
The NICO and IOS, independent of participant effort, measured R(AW) and MV, which varied by wheelchair seating condition. More research is needed with a larger sample to determine seating components' impact on pulmonary function. These methods objectively measured pulmonary function of young children with CP in wheelchairs and could facilitate further research into benefits of wheelchair postural support components.
Provision of mechanical insufflation-exsufflation in combination with standard chest physical treatments may improve the management of airway mucous encumbrance in neuromyopathic patients; its use should be included in the noninvasive approach to treatment of respiratory tract infections with impaired mucous clearance.
This is a short-term study of the use of in-exsufflation as a supplement to standard NIV plus physiotherapy in a small group of patients with neuromuscular disease. The addition of mechanical in-exsufflation shortened airway-clearance sessions. The device appeared to be safe and well tolerated, and may provide additional benefit to patients with neuromuscular disease and upper-respiratory-tract infection; further studies are indicated.
The use of inspiratory and expiratory aids can decrease the need for intubation for patients with neuromuscular ventilatory failure in the absence of significant lung disease. It can also permit extubation, despite the need for continuous ventilatory support and, thereby, decrease the need to resort to tracheostomy.
A decrease in respiratory rate, heart rate, and dyspnea score and an improvement in oxygenation were noted in >90% of patients studied, resulting in only an 8% frequency of intubation. The efficacy of bilevel positive airway pressure support ventilation in selected groups of patients indicates the need to include this form of noninvasive pressure support ventilation in the care offered by pediatric ICUs.
In patients with dyspnoea with DMD, the load on respiratory muscles increases and endurance capacity decreases with increasing breathlessness during the day, and this is reversed by n-NIPPV. An additional 2 h of d-NIPPV unloads respiratory muscles and reverses breathlessness more effectively than n-NIPPV alone.
Preventive application of NIV combined with assisted coughing after extubation provides a clinically important advantage to patients with NMD by averting the need for reintubation or tracheostomy and shortening their stay in the RICU; its use should be included in the routine approach to patients with NMD at high risk for postextubation respiratory failure.
The use of therapeutic positioning in sitting and sidelying positions should be considered as a noninvasive intervention for a population with respiratory compromise. Further research with a larger sample is needed to empirically link specific positions with improved respiratory efficiency.
In this study, pregnant women did not increase energy and nutritional intake during pregnancy with respect to the preconception period. Energy intake was increased immediately after birth, coinciding with lactation. Throughout the study, however, the reported consumption was lower than recommended daily intakes.
Dietary sodium restriction to a level recommended in guidelines was more effective than dual blockade for reduction of proteinuria and blood pressure in non-diabetic nephropathy. The findings support the combined endeavours of patients and health professionals to reduce sodium intake. Trial registration Netherlands Trial Register NTR675.
Urinary and plasma CTGF are elevated in nondiabetic CKD. Only urinary CTGF is normalized by antiproteinuric intervention, consistent with amelioration of tubular dysfunction. The lack of effect on plasma CTGF suggests that its driving force might be independent of proteinuria and that short-term antiproteinuric interventions are not sufficient to correct the systemic profibrotic state in CKD.
Urinary KIM-1 level was increased in patients with nondiabetic CKD with proteinuria and decreased in parallel with proteinuria by using losartan, sodium restriction, their combination, losartan plus HCT, and the latter plus sodium restriction. These results are consistent with the hypothesis of amelioration of proteinuria-induced tubular damage. Long-term studies are warranted to evaluate whether targeting treatment on KIM-1 can improve outcomes in patients with CKD with proteinuria.
The 24-hour urinary albumin excretion was decreased more in patients in the intensive low-salt diet education group than patients in the conventional education group. Weekly intensive education on a low-salt diet would be a suitable method for clinical practice.
An independent, graded association was observed between a reduced estimated GFR and the risk of death, cardiovascular events, and hospitalization in a large, community-based population. These findings highlight the clinical and public health importance of chronic renal insufficiency.
Intensive interventions, unsuited to primary care or population prevention programmes, provide only small reductions in blood pressure and sodium excretion, and effects on deaths and cardiovascular events are unclear. Advice to reduce sodium intake may help people on antihypertensive drugs to stop their medication while maintaining good blood pressure control.
The available published information, while highly variable in methods and quality, suggests that variations in dietary salt consumption directly influence albuminuria, with increasing salt intake associated with worsening albuminuria; however, results are inadequate and conflicting on the effects of dietary salt consumption on renal function, especially over a prolonged time. There was no evidence of a detrimental effect of reduced salt intake. On the other hand, there is consistent experimental evidence to link increased salt exposure with kidney tissue injury. On the basis of these data, we believe that dietary salt restriction should be considered in patients with chronic kidney disease.
The DASH combination diet, without sodium reduction or weight loss, significantly lowered blood pressure in virtually all subgroups examined, and was particularly effective in African Americans and those with hypertension. The DASH combination diet may be an effective strategy for preventing and treating hypertension in a broad cross section of the population, including segments of the population at highest risk for blood pressure-related cardiovascular disease.
Dietary salt loading produced significant increases in PWV and BP in hypertensive volunteers. Correlations between BP and PWV suggest that salt loading may have a BP-independent effect on vascular wall function. This further supports the importance of dietary sodium restriction in the management of hypertension. This trial was registered with the Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry as ACTRN12609000161224.
Our results support the premise that low potassium intake may play an important role in the genesis of high blood pressure. Increased potassium intake should be considered as a recommendation for prevention and treatment of hypertension, especially in those who are unable to reduce their intake of sodium.
Healthy men seem to use 3000-5000 IU cholecalciferol/d, apparently meeting > 80% of their winter cholecalciferol need with cutaneously synthesized accumulations from solar sources during the preceding summer months. Current recommended vitamin D inputs are inadequate to maintain serum 25-hydroxycholecalciferol concentration in the absence of substantial cutaneous production of vitamin D.
Circulating vitamin D, the parent compound, likely plays an important physiological role with respect to the vitamin D endocrine/autocrine system, as a substrate in many tissues, not originally thought to be important. Based on emerging data from the laboratory, clinical trials, and data on circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D amassed during many decades, it is likely that for the optimal functioning of these systems, significant vitamin D should be available on a daily basis to ensure stable circulating concentrations, implying that variation in vitamin D dosing schedules could have profound effects on the outcomes of clinical trials because of the short circulating half-life of intact vitamin D.
This study provides a global estimate of the burden of asthma in adults, and suggests that asthma continues to be a major public health concern worldwide. The high prevalence of smoking remains a major barrier to combating the global burden of asthma. While the highest prevalence rates were observed in resource-rich countries, resource-poor nations were also significantly affected, posing a barrier to development as it stretches further the demands of non-communicable diseases.
Subthreshold diode laser is effective in the treatment of ICSC with point source leakage. However, for eyes with diffuse leakage, a less favorable response was noted. A multicenter, randomized clinical trial is needed to ascertain the real efficacy and the appropriate settings of SMD for chronic ICSC.
The modified safety enhanced PDT protocol with half dose verteporfin appeared to be a beneficial treatment option for patients with chronic CSC, especially in eyes without serous PED. Further controlled study is warranted to demonstrate the long term safety and efficacy of this treatment option.
The subretinal fluid resolved in both disease groups; however, the choroidal thickness and hyperpermeability seen during ICGA was reduced after PDT. These findings suggest that PDT reduces the choroidal vascular hyperpermeability seen in CSC and may work by a different mechanism than LP.
Delayed arterial filling followed by capillary and venous hyperemia, angiographically appearing as capillary and venous congestion, can be observed frequently in eyes with central serous chorioretinopathy. The results suggested that capillary or venous congestion after ischemia in one or more choroidal lobules might be the reason for the choroidal hyperpermeability associated with central serous chorioretinopathy.
In most of the eyes, both standard-fluence PDT and low-fluence PDT resulted in complete subretinal fluid reabsorption with visual acuity improvement. Choroidal hypoperfusion related to PDT could be reduced by low-fluence PDT.
ICG dye-enhanced subthreshold micropulsed diode laser photocoagulation appears to be a safe and effective treatment and represents a possible approach for the management of chronic CSC with persistent central serous neuroepithelial detachment. Immediate post treatment ICG angiography, without ICG reinjection, allows documenting the actual number and location of the delivered subthreshold laser applications.
PDT with verteporfin at a dosage used clinically induces selective occlusion of the physiological choriocapillaris without affecting deeper choroidal, retinal, and optic nerve vessels or the overlying retinal pigment epithelium and neurosensory retina. The main mechanism of action appears to be vascular thrombosis induced by cytotoxic damage of endothelial cells and platelet activation. An increase in light dose enhances the occlusive effect with thrombosis within deeper choroidal layers and damage to the retinal pigment epithelium. However, photoreceptors remained intact at all light doses used.
Being able to identify comprehensive, up-to-date reviews is important to clinicians, guideline groups, and those designing clinical trials. This study demonstrates that some reviews have a considerable delay between search and publication, but only 47% of systematic review abstracts stated the last search date and 60% stated the databases that had been searched. Improvements in the quality of abstracts of systematic reviews and ways to shorten the review and revision processes to make review publication more rapid are needed.
Isocaloric exchange of fructose for other carbohydrate improves long-term glycemic control, as assessed by glycated blood proteins, without affecting insulin in people with diabetes. Generalizability may be limited because most of the trials were <12 weeks and had relatively low MQS (<8). To confirm these findings, larger and longer fructose feeding trials assessing both possible glycemic benefit and adverse metabolic effects are required.
Pooled analyses show that fructose in isocaloric exchange for other carbohydrate does not increase postprandial triglycerides, although an effect cannot be excluded under all conditions. Fructose providing excess energy does increase postprandial triglycerides. Larger, longer, and higher-quality trials are needed.
In quality-of-life research, the current challenge is to devise models to clarify the elements of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and the causal relationships among them. This revision of Wilson and Cleary's model includes a taxonomy of the variables that often have been used to measure HRQoL. This revision should be useful in research and clinical practice.
There was consistent agreement between reviewers on most items in the checklist. The use of this checklist may be an aid to improving the consistency and reproducibility of GRADE assessments, particularly for inexperienced users or in rapid reviews without the resources to conduct assessments by two researchers independently.
Among free living people involving ad libitum diets, intake of free sugars or sugar sweetened beverages is a determinant of body weight. The change in body fatness that occurs with modifying intakes seems to be mediated via changes in energy intakes, since isoenergetic exchange of sugars with other carbohydrates was not associated with weight change.
Considering the public health importance of obesity and its consequences; the clearly relevant role of diet in the pathogenesis and maintenance of obesity; and the billions of dollars spent on non-caloric sweeteners, little high-quality clinical research has been done. Studies are needed to determine the role of hypocaloric sweeteners in a wider population health strategy to prevent, reduce and manage obesity and its consequences.
We identified a high frequency of psychiatric symptoms both before and after temporal lobectomy, demonstrating that it is not a benign procedure from the point of view of psychopathology. Our results show that there are certain predictive factors that may help identify patients most at risk for postoperative psychiatric disorders.
The goals of providing maximal opportunity to achieve remission, while minimizing exposure to ineffective treatment can be satisfied by use of duration adaptive designs (DAD). While use of conditional probabilities has been the traditional method for early detection of nonremitters, this approach is inferior to use of signal detection methods. The findings also contradicted the widely held view that patients with late-life depression require longer treatment duration.
In the community, epilepsy is associated with an increased prevalence of mental health disorders compared with the general population. Epilepsy is also associated with a higher prevalence of suicidal ideation. Understanding the psychiatric correlates of epilepsy is important to adequately manage this patient population.
Tube otorrhea is a common and often recurrent and/or stubborn problem in young children who have undergone tube placement for persistent MEE. The extent of the problem seems to be related inversely to socioeconomic status. Tube otorrhea does not always respond satisfactorily to outpatient management and for resolution may require parenteral antimicrobial treatment and/or tube removal.
Sequelae of tympanostomy tubes are common but are generally transient (otorrhea) or cosmetic (tympanosclerosis, focal atrophy). Nonetheless, the high incidence suggests a need for ongoing otologic surveillance of all patients with indwelling tubes and for a reasonable time period after tube extrusion. Long-term tubes should be used on a selective and individualized basis.
ENT-UK recommends that when treating a patient with a discharging ear, in whom there is a perforation or patent grommet: if a topical aminoglycoside is used, this should only be in the presence of obvious infection. Topical aminoglycosides should be used for no longer than 2 weeks. The justification for using topical aminoglycosides should be explained to the patient. Baseline audiometry should be performed, if possible or practical, before treatment with topical aminoglycosides.
Tympanostomy tubes produce large short-term improvements in QOL for most children. The best outcomes occur when postoperative otorrhea is absent or minimal, and when parents are satisfied with their initial decision to have surgery. Further research is needed to document the long-term impact of tubes on child QOL.
Antibiotic-glucocorticoid eardrops were more effective than oral antibiotics and initial observation in children with tympanostomy tubes who had uncomplicated acute otorrhea. (Funded by the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development; Netherlands Trial Register number, NTR1481.).
In the 0- to 8-year-old age group in whom the incidence of cervical spine injury is rare but frequently involves the upper cervical spine, the transoral odontoid roentgenogram may be of little value in the evaluation of the spine and should not be considered necessary in "clearing" the pediatric cervical spine. An alternative evaluation of these patients would include an initial lateral and AP radiograph, followed by computed tomography scan.
TSI in children requires a different preventive and therapeutic logarithm compared with that of adults. The potential devastating nature of TSI warrants that the health care team always maintains a high index of suspicion for injury. Future prospective studies are needed to further elucidate injury patterns.
1. The number of pediatric cervical spine injuries in our institution appears to be increasing. 2. Cervical spine injury in children less than 8 years of age are not exclusively confined to the region above C4. 3. Occurrence of cervical spine injuries despite lap-shoulder belt use suggests that efforts should be focused on refinement of motor vehicle restraint devices in young school-aged children.
3.5% of patients suffered cervical spine injury. Patients with a lowered GCS or systolic blood pressure, severe facial fractures, dangerous injury mechanism, male gender, and/or age ≥ 35 years are at increased risk. Contrary to common belief, head injury was not predictive for cervical spine involvement.
These data, representing the largest series to date, confirm that blunt C-spine injuries in children are rare. Patterns of injury vary significantly according to child age. Major neurologic sequelae in survivors is uncommon, does not correlate well with cord level, and rarely is complete.
From this, the largest experience with pediatric cervical spine injury, several conclusions can be drawn. (1) Cervical spine injury occurs in 1.5% of injured children. (2) Upper cervical spine injuries are not limited to younger children but are equally prevalent in both age groups. (3) Associated mortality rate is nearly 6-fold higher in patients with upper cervical injury. (4) Seventeen percent of children with cervical spine trauma show no radiologic anomaly, yet 50% of children with cervical spinal cord injury have no initial radiologic abnormalities. (5) Of those in whom cervical spine injury is associated with a neurologic deficit, the deficit is complete in 24% of children.
SCIWORA is uncommon. The serious neurological sequelae that can result from a missed diagnosis merit more attention in identifying a spinal lesion in children with traumatic myelopathy. MRI has played a valuable role in this respect and may be even more predictive of outcome than the presenting neurological findings. The SCIWORA acronym can be modified to SCIWONA (spinal cord injury without neuroimaging abnormality) in order to highlight the importance of MRI in the prognosis.
The lower cervical spine is the most common site of CSI in children, and fractures are the most common type of injury. CSI is rare among patients aged 8 years or younger. The NEXUS decision instrument performed well in children, and its use could reduce pediatric cervical spine imaging by nearly 20%. However, the small number of infants and toddlers in the study suggests caution in applying the NEXUS criteria to this particular age group.
Compared with placebo, indacaterol 75 μg once daily provided statistically significant and clinically relevant 24-hour bronchodilation and was well tolerated. In patients receiving indacaterol, the reduction in rescue albuterol use was statistically significant. Changes in health status also were statistically significant compared with placebo, although the differences of 3.6 and 3.8 units were below the predefined 4-unit level of clinical relevance. The results of these studies suggest that indacaterol 75 μg once daily is an effective maintenance treatment in patients with moderate to severe COPD. ClinicalTrials.gov identifiers: 
Compared with tiotropium monotherapy, indacaterol plus tiotropium provided greater bronchodilation and lung deflation (reflected by increased resting IC). Adverse events were similar between treatments apart from mild cough being more common with indacaterol plus tiotropium. These results support COPD guideline recommendations to combine bronchodilators with different mechanisms of action.
Indacaterol, given to patients with moderate-to-severe COPD not receiving other maintenance treatments, provided effective bronchodilation with significant, clinically relevant improvements in dyspnoea and health status compared with placebo.
Our findings indicate a substantial increase in COPD prevalence in the last decade, with more of the burden being shifted from men to women. Effective clinical and public health strategies are needed to prevent COPD and manage the increasing number of people living longer with this disease.
Patients receiving indacaterol had clinically significant improvements in symptoms of dyspnea compared to placebo. Incremental benefits in TDI were observed with increasing doses. Indacaterol may provide patients and physicians with a useful treatment option in symptomatic patients with dyspnea.
The presence of > or =1 of a bulging fontanel, neck stiffness, cyanosis, impaired consciousness, partial seizures, and seizures outside the febrile convulsions age range is a clear indication for lumbar puncture and/or presumptive treatment. However, careful observation and reassessment may be the only practical way to identify one fifth of meningitis cases in this setting.
Clinical and autopsy studies showed that the major determinants for the lethal outcome were primarily central nervous system complications in six patients, systemic complications in five, and a combination of both in another five. The identification of the various complications and their time of expected occurrence may help to develop additional treatment regimens in bacterial meningitis in adults.
The real budgets operated by fundholders were associated with a reduction in costs of about 6% relative to continuing non-fundholders, and this saving seemed to be retained during the study. The relative reduction was small compared with the absolute increase seen in all groups and disappeared after the third year of fundholding. It was brought about by lowering the average cost per item rather than by giving fewer items.
Good quality of care for hypertension was stable or improving before pay for performance was introduced. Pay for performance had no discernible effects on processes of care or on hypertension related clinical outcomes. Generous financial incentives, as designed in the UK pay for performance policy, may not be sufficient to improve quality of care and outcomes for hypertension and other common chronic conditions.
The financial incentives had a marked effect on prescribing volume and cost on some practices who could achieve targets and hence incentive payments. The incentives had little effect on high spending practices. Such incentive schemes need careful evaluation if they are not to become perverse to the good health of patients.
Against a background of increases in the quality of care before the pay-for-performance scheme was introduced, the scheme accelerated improvements in quality for two of three chronic conditions in the short term. However, once targets were reached, the improvement in the quality of care for patients with these conditions slowed, and the quality of care declined for two conditions that had not been linked to incentives. Continuity of care was reduced after the introduction of the scheme.
Use of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists has decreased in the Medicare and Veterans Health Administration populations since 2004 without a compensatory increase in the use of alternative forms of androgen deprivation therapy. The shift in practice patterns is likely due to a decrease in Medicare reimbursement for these drugs, an increase in the use of intermittent therapy and increased recognition of the adverse effects associated with androgen deprivation therapy.
Small financial incentives (maximum, $5000/year) based on individual physicians' performance may have led to continued or enhanced improvement in well-established ambulatory care measures. Compared with other quality improvement programs having alternative foci for incentives (eg, increasing support for staff hours), the effect of physician-specific incentives was not evident.
Referral patterns among fundholders and non-fundholders were strikingly similar after the implementation of the NHS reforms. There was no evidence that fundholding was encouraging a shift from specialist to general practice care or that budgetary pressures were affecting general practitioners' referral behaviour.
No evidence existed that budgetary pressures caused first wave fundholders to reduce referral rates, although the method of budget allocation may have encouraged general practitioners to inflate their referral rates in the preparatory year. Despite investment in new practice based facilities, no evidence yet exists that fundholding encourages a shift away from specialist care.
Fundholders increased their orthopaedic referrals less than did controls and achieved a better balance between outpatient appointments and referrals. Their patients were likely to be seen more quickly, particularly if the hospital provided special clinics exclusively for fundholders. Lack of case mix information makes it impossible to judge whether these differences benefit or disadvantage patients.
Switching to incentive formulary arrangements with higher levels of copayments generally led to overall lower drug costs and vice versa. These effects varied with the degree of change, level of baseline spending, and magnitude of the copayments. Whether these effects are beneficial overall depends on potential health effects and spillover effects on medical spending.
The most important finding is that general practitioners (GPs), working collaboratively, can establish a strategy of clinical and corporate governance which may be exerting a wide ranging influence over clinical behaviour. Although there may be doubts about the actual levels of saving these appeared to be well in excess of the financial investment in the strategy. Greater savings appear possible with a focus on addressing the large and apparently inappropriate per capita prescribing volume variation between practices. Understanding and successfully addressing this variation will be one of the key issues facing the implementation of the government's primary health care strategy.
The results offer some encouragement to the proponents of fundholding, but more longitudinal studies are needed to evaluate the misgivings of critics of the scheme. Fundholders are uncertain about their ability to make savings year after year, particularly in an increasingly cost contained environment.
Revision of reimbursement criteria led to significant changes in the trend in LLD use in general practice in southern Italy: (1) statin utilization was slightly reduced in 2005, although it increased in certain categories, such as diabetic patients, and (2) omega-3 fatty acid use was strongly reduced even though a higher use in postinfarction cases was reported.
The Medicare Part D coverage gap was associated with modest reductions in the use of antidepressants. Those with generic coverage reduced their use of brand-name drugs and did not switch from brand-name to generic drugs. The reduction in antidepressant use was not associated with an increase in nondrug medical spending.
The introduction of a major national pay for performance scheme for primary care in England was associated with a decrease in emergency admissions for incentivised conditions compared with conditions that were not incentivised. Contemporaneous health service changes seem unlikely to have caused the sharp change in the trajectory of incentivised ACSC admissions immediately after the introduction of the Quality and Outcomes Framework. The decrease seems larger than would be expected from the changes in the process measures that were incentivised, suggesting that the pay for performance scheme may have had impacts on quality of care beyond the directly incentivised activities.
The introduction of financial incentives was associated with improvements in the recorded quality of diabetes care in the first year. These improvements included some measures of disease control, but most captured only documentation of recommended aspects of clinical assessment, not patient management or outcomes of care. Improvements in subsequent years were more modest. Variation in care between population groups diminished under the incentives, but remained substantial in some cases.
There is some evidence to suggest that how a primary care physician is paid does affect his/her behaviour but the generalisability of these studies is unknown. Most policy changes in the area of payment systems are inadequately informed by research. Future changes to doctor payment systems need to be rigorously evaluated.
Educational outreach as well as audit and feedback continue to dominate research into prescribing interventions. These 2 prescribing interventions also most consistently show positive results. Much less research is conducted into other types of interventions and there is still very little effort to systematically test why interventions do or do not work.
GPs were critical of guidelines' development, relevance and implementation. Guidelines should be clear about changes they propose. Future studies should quantify the relationship between evidence base of recommendations and implementation, and between change in recommendations and implementation. Small but important costs and side effects of implementing guidelines should be measured in evaluative studies.
Pay for performance is now commonly used by HMOs, especially those that are situated to assign responsibility for a particular patient to a PCP or medical group. As the design of Medicare with pay for performance moves forward, it will be important to leverage the early experience of pay for performance in the commercial market.
Most health plans are committed to pay-for-performance programs. Although providers would prefer health plans in their communities to use a single standardized set of measures and methods, this is unlikely given local market environments. A national effort directed at standardization might significantly reduce the extent of customization but also may limit the opportunities for local collaboration with providers.
In the aggregate, the results of a meta-analysis indicated that clozapine exhibits superiority over typical antipsychotics in terms of both efficacy (as measured by improvement in overall psychopathology) and safety (in terms of reduced extrapyramidal side effects). However, the magnitude of the clozapine treatment effect was not consistently robust. Efficacy data for other second-generation antipsychotics in the treatment of patients with refractory schizophrenia were inconclusive. There is, therefore, a growing need to consider new and different treatment strategies, whether they be adjunctive or monotherapeutic, for schizophrenia that continues to be resistant or only partially responsive to treatment.
A number of side effects commonly cited as medical reasons for clozapine discontinuation do not necessarily warrant such action. Management techniques are available that allow continuation or rechallenge in relation to a number of clozapine-related side effects.
The effects of the antipsychotics are in agreement with their receptor binding profiles: alpha(1)-adrenoceptor blockade by clozapine may contribute to reductions in pupil diameter, salivation, mean arterial blood pressure and sedation, and muscarinic cholinoceptor blockade by the drug may underlie the reduction in salivation. Conversely, D(2) dopamine receptor blockade by haloperidol is likely to be responsible for the increase in prolactin secretion evoked by the drug.
This meta-analysis confirms that clozapine is more effective than conventional neuroleptics in reducing symptoms of patients with both treatment-resistant and nonresistant schizophrenia. Future trials should be long-term pragmatic community trials or should address the effectiveness of clozapine in special patient populations. An international standard set of outcomes, including pragmatic assessments of functioning, would greatly enhance the comparison and summation of trials and future assessments of effectiveness.
Preventive distributions combining a supplementary food and cash transfer had a better preventive effect on MAM and SAM than strategies relying on cash transfer or supplementary food alone. As a result, distribution of nutritious supplementary foods to young children in conjunction with household support should remain a pillar of emergency nutritional interventions. Additional rigorous research is vital to evaluate the effectiveness of these and other nutritional interventions in diverse settings.
Financial incentives may have potential to promote increased coverage of several important child health interventions, but the quality of evidence available is low. The more pronounced effects seem to be achieved by programs that directly removed user fees for access to health services. Some indication of effect were also observed for programs that conditioned financial incentives on participation in health education and attendance to health care visits. This finding suggest that the measured effect may be less a consequence of the financial incentive and more due to conditionalities addressing important informational barriers.
Ongoing and future studies should build on current findings to unpack unresolved questions and to collect additional evidence on the multiple impacts of transfers in different settings. Furthermore, in order to address questions on sustainability, cash transfer programmes need to be integrated with other sectors and programmes that address structural factors such as education and programming to promote gender equality and address HIV.
Vitamin A supplementation is associated with large reductions in mortality, morbidity, and vision problems in a range of settings, and these results cannot be explained by bias. Further placebo controlled trials of vitamin A supplementation in children between 6 and 59 months of age are not required. However, there is a need for further studies comparing different doses and delivery mechanisms (for example, fortification). Until other sources are available, vitamin A supplements should be given to all children at risk of deficiency, particularly in low and middle income countries.
The results indicated that classical Ayurvedic treatment was effective in this first cohort of patients who completed treatment. Even patients with severe functional limitations showed significant improvement. Although there was no control group, the results are positive enough to warrant further study of classical Ayurvedic treatment for RA in controlled trials.
Our results show that RA is associated with a 60% increase in risk of CV death compared with general population. Despite changes in RA course over the past decades, SMR for CV death has not changed. This suggests that targeting a reduction in CV mortality should still be considered as a major issue in RA.
The findings of a genetic basis for both Ayurvedic and TCM classifications indicate a commonality between Asia's great medical traditions in their diagnostic typologies and a genetic basis for Asian traditional medicine's theory of discrete and discernable groupings of psycho-physiologic differences. Accordingly, new horizons have opened for collaborative East-East research and for an individualized approach to disease management and activation of the full range of human potential, as articulated in Ayurveda and TCM.
Investigation of the mechanism and potential uses of CAM therapies is still in its infancy and many studies done to date are scientifically flawed. Further systematic and scientific inquiry into this topic is necessary to validate or refute the clinical claims made for CAM therapies. An understanding of the mechanism of action of CAM therapies allows physicians to counsel effectively on their proper and improper use, prevent adverse drug-drug interactions, and anticipate or appreciate toxicities.
Preterm infants are vulnerable to suboptimal early nutrition in terms of their cognitive performance--notably, language based skills--at 7 1/2 - 8 years, when cognitive scores are highly predictive of adult ones. Our data on cerebral palsy generate a new hypothesis that suboptimal nutritional management during a critical or plastic early period of rapid brain growth could impair functional compensation in those sustaining an earlier brain insult. Cognitive function, notably in males, may be permanently impaired by suboptimal neonatal nutrition.
Because nitrogen content is 10% higher in hydrolyzed-protein formula than in entire-protein formula, appropriate nitrogen retention, plasma amino acid profile, and mineral use can be achieved with the new partially hydrolyzed formula. Further studies with larger groups are needed to evaluate the effect on growth.
Many diseases unique to preterm infants, either directly or by enhancing the effects of stress on the metabolism of such infants, provide important changes in the nutrient requirements. The overriding observation from all studies, however, is that ELBW and VLBW preterm infants are underfed during the early postnatal period and that this condition, combined with additional stresses from various diseases, increases the risk of long-term neurological sequelae. The value of achieving a specific body composition and growth weight is less certain. There remains a critical need for determining the right quality as well as quantity of nutrients for these infants.
The prevalence of opportunistic infections with Pityrosporum ovale and C albicans is increased among renal transplant recipients, probably owing to the immunosuppressed state of this patient population. However, renal transplant recipients are not at increased risk of dermatophytosis.
Results of the present study indicate that patients with PR and TV are at risk for psychopathology. Uncertainties about the etiology and length of recovery period in PR and location of disease to visible parts and recurrent nature of the disease in TV groups might have affected the patients' psychological status.
Complications associated with arterial catheterization are common in critically ill children. Significantly, we were unable to account for the potential confounding effect of central venous catheterization in this study secondary to limitations of ICD-9 coding. This study serves as a hypothesis-generating report of a large pediatric sample and suggests the need to carefully assess arterial catheter-associated complications in a prospective study independent of central venous catheters.
PFAPA is a not uncommon cause of periodic fever in children. In some children the syndrome resolves, whereas symptoms in others persist. Long-term sequelae do not develop. The syndrome is easily diagnosed when regularly recurring episodes of fever are associated with aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis, or cervical adenitis.
The rate of neonatal death in the 7 days after birth did not decrease after the introduction of Essential Newborn Care training of community-based birth attendants, although the rate of stillbirths was reduced. Subsequent training in the Neonatal Resuscitation Program did not significantly reduce the mortality rates. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Neither ENC nor NRP training of birth attendants decreased 7-day neonatal, stillbirth, or perinatal mortality rates for VLBW infants born at home or at first-level facilities. Encouragement of delivery in a facility where a higher level of care is available may be preferable when delivery of a VLBW infant is expected.
Healthcare professionals using a decision support tool exhibit significantly fewer deviations from the Neonatal Resuscitation Program algorithm compared to those working from memory alone during simulated neonatal resuscitation.
Training traditional birth attendants to manage common perinatal conditions significantly reduced neonatal mortality in a rural African setting. This approach has high potential to be applied to similar settings with dispersed rural populations. Trial registration Clinicaltrials.gov 
The beneficial effect of mannequin practice or video boosters on skills and knowledge retention was less than what had been anticipated, and no benefit could be demonstrated in comparison to the control group. Deteriorating knowledge and skills remain a major concern, since boostering by hands-on or video at 3-5 months do not seem to have an impact on the retention of knowledge or lifesaving skills.
Medical simulation can be an effective tool to assess the knowledge and skills of EM residents in neonatal resuscitation. Our simulation-based educational intervention significantly improved EM residents' knowledge and performance of the critical initial steps in neonatal resuscitation. A medical simulation-based educational intervention may be used to improve EM residents' knowledge and performance with neonatal resuscitation.
Trained participants exhibited more frequent teamwork behaviors (especially the HFT group) and better workload management and completed the resuscitation more quickly than did control subjects. The impact on team behaviors persisted for at least 6 months. Incorporating team training into the NRP curriculum is a feasible and effective way to teach interns teamwork skills. It also improves simulated resuscitation quality by shortening the duration.
The intervention has not only improved skills of health providers, decreased the mortality and morbidity of birth asphyxia, but also resulted in effective implementation of guidelines and protocols within hospitals.
HBB implementation was associated with a significant reduction in both early neonatal deaths within 24 hours and rates of FSB. HBB uses a basic intervention approach readily applicable at all deliveries. These findings should serve as a call to action for other resource-limited countries striving to meet Millennium Development Goal 4.
Neonatal resuscitation should be an integral part of continuing education for all personnel involved in obstetrical care because it improves both tested knowledge and performance. Practical skills appear to decline faster than theoretical knowledge. Inservice instruction is required, at least, every six months.
These results suggest that PRONTO's highly realistic, locally appropriate simulation and team training in maternal and neonatal emergency care may be a promising avenue for optimizing emergency response and improving quality of facility-based obstetric and neonatal care in resource-limited settings.
Education that appears successful from immediate posttests and learner evaluations can result in knowledge that is mostly lost to recall over the ensuing days and weeks. To achieve longer-term retention, physicians should review or otherwise reinforce new learning after as little as 1 week.
Resuscitation training in developing countries was well received and viewed as valuable training by the students and local counterparts. Important student, training environment characteristics, educational outcomes and patient outcomes were inconsistently defined and reported. Institution of training in trauma and newborn resuscitation in developing countries has significantly reduced mortality, but this has not been demonstrated with other training programs.
Multiple factors, including the infusate and the duration of cannulation, contribute to the development of infusion-related phlebitis. The use of peripheral intravenous catheters made of PEU-Vialon appears to pose the same risk for catheter-related infection as the use of catheters made of FEP-Teflon, and PEU-Vialon can permit longer cannulation with less risk for phlebitis. The risk for catheter-related bacteremia with FEP-Teflon and PEU-Vialon catheters is sufficiently low that it no longer seems justifiable to recommend the use of small steel needles for most peripheral intravenous therapy.
The effectiveness of i.v. filters in excluding the large particle load introduced by i.v. antibiotics and hence in reducing the subsequent phlebitis makes them a useful alternative to the use of hep/hc. The use of filters in this patient group may offer advantages in terms of ease of use and a possible decrease in hep/hc-related problems. Long lines offer practical advantages over short lines for patients requiring longer term i.v. access.
(1) Combined therapy with ICS plus LABA significantly improves symptoms, lung function and AHR of asthmatic patients. (2) Adjustment of therapy based only on clinical parameters may lead to early step-down or withdrawal and therefore asthma exacerbations. (3) PC(35) sGaw, an index of AHR, may be valuable in assessing asthma severity, evaluating the efficacy of treatment and guiding medication adjustment.
Stepping down patients whose asthma is controlled with the highest recommended dose of fluticasone/salmeterol to either 500/100 μg fluticasone/salmeterol daily or 400/24 μg extra-fine beclomethasone/formoterol daily provides comparable maintenance of lung function and asthma control.
Evidence from observational studies shows that the combined treatment of LABAs and ICs is not associated with a higher risk of serious adverse events, compared to ICs alone. Major gaps identified were prospective design, paediatric population and inclusion of mortality as a primary outcome.
Nearly all the children had a differential response to each step-up therapy. LABA step-up was significantly more likely to provide the best response than either ICS or LTRA step-up. However, many children had a best response to ICS or LTRA step-up therapy, highlighting the need to regularly monitor and appropriately adjust each child's asthma therapy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
For the primary end point in the total population, there were no significant differences between treatments. There were small, but statistically significant increases in respiratory-related and asthma-related deaths and combined asthma-related deaths or life-threatening experiences in the total population receiving salmeterol. Subgroup analyses suggest the risk may be greater in African Americans compared with Caucasian subjects. Whether this risk is due to factors including but not limited to a physiologic treatment effect, genetic factors, or patient behaviors leading to poor outcomes remains unknown.
Depth of anesthesia during LMA removal does not appear to affect the incidence or severity of airway hyperreactivity when sevoflurane is the maintenance anesthetic. However, awake LMA removal during isoflurane anesthesia results in a higher incidence of adverse airway events and carries the risk of severe airway hyperreactivity.
When an LMA is used during desflurane anesthesia in children, fewer airway events occur when it is removed when the child is awake. Although the time to discharge from recovery was not delayed and no child required overnight admission, caution should be exercised when using an LMA in children who are anesthetized with desflurane.
Use of desflurane for maintenance of anesthesia was associated with a faster emergence and a higher incidence of coughing. Despite the faster initial recovery with desflurane, no significant differences were found between the two volatile anesthetics in the later recovery period. Both volatile anesthetics should be available for ambulatory anesthesia.
The results indicate that lightweight compression stockings can have a significant effect on venous haemodynamics. They decrease the residual volume fraction and by inference ambulatory venous pressure. This is the result of an increase in the ejection fraction with a decrease of reflux. The results offer a possible physiological explanation on the relief of symptoms experienced when patients with varicose veins wear lightweight stockings.
On the basis of this study, we concluded that patients managed with total hip arthroplasty benefit from a reduction in the rates of femoral and pelvic deep vein thrombosis when they are treated with hypotensive epidural anesthesia, mechanical compression, and aspirin and are subsequently assessed with magnetic resonance venography.
Patients with VTE are at increased risk of dying, especially within the first year after diagnosis, but also during the entire 30 years of follow-up, with VTE as an important cause of death. Although 30-day mortality after DVT remained fairly constant over the last 3 decades, it improved markedly for PE.
The study reaffirms the high prevalence of overweight and obesity in pre-school children in New Zealand, and demonstrates the variations in prevalence when using different reference standards.
These studies suggest that patients with CHD are successfully engaging in full adult responsibilities and roles but do experience specific psychosocial challenges that may impact emotional functioning, self-perception, and peer relationships. Lifestyle considerations in young adulthood are significant and impinge on pregnancy considerations and exercise capabilities. Clinical management strategies include increased awareness and dialogue between patients with CHD and physicians regarding psychosocial concerns.
A poor conceptual and methodological basis for quality of life implies that many results from quality-of-life studies performed in patients with congenital heart disease contribute little to the scientific knowledge base of quality of life in this patient population. Future quality-of-life studies need to invest in a rigorous conceptualization, an adequate operational definition, and a sound measurement of quality of life.
We conclude that surgical treatment afforded better results. There were no recurrences in the surgical treatment group, but there were 8 recurrences in the conservative treatment group. The mean Kujala score was 92 in the surgical treatment group and 69 in the conservative treatment group.
Delayed primary repair of the MPFL by use of an anchor-based reattachment to the adductor tubercle without vastus medialis obliquus repair after primary patella dislocation does not reduce the risk of redislocation nor does it produce any significantly better subjective functional outcome based on the Kujala knee score. Only the specific subjective patella stability score was improved by MPFL repair compared with conservative treatment.
The long-term subjective and functional results after acute patellar dislocation are satisfactory in most patients. Initial operative repair of the medial structures combined with lateral release did not improve the long-term outcome, despite the very high rate of recurrent instability. A positive family history is a risk factor for recurrence and for contralateral patellofemoral instability. Routine repair of the torn medial stabilizing soft tissues is not advocated for the treatment of acute patellar dislocation in children and adolescents.
The long-term subjective and functional results after acute patellar dislocation are satisfactory in most patients. Initial operative repair of the medial structures combined with lateral release did not improve the long-term outcome, despite the very high rate of recurrent instability. A positive family history is a risk factor for recurrence and for contralateral patellofemoral instability. Routine repair of the torn medial stabilizing soft tissues is not advocated for the treatment of acute patellar dislocation in children and adolescents.
In a study of young, mostly male adults with primary traumatic patellar dislocation, the rate of redislocation for those treated with surgical stabilization was significantly lower than the rate for those treated without surgical stabilization. However, no clear subjective benefits of initial stabilizing surgery were seen at the time of long-term follow-up.
Even with a focus on acute traumatic etiology and when factors predisposing to recurrent instability are largely excluded, the redislocation rate after treatment of acute patellar dislocation is still high, despite good clinical and subjective results. Conservative management seems to be the treatment of choice in patients with acute patellar dislocation, provided that the generally accepted indications for surgery, such as evidence of osteochondral fragments and major defects of the parapatellar ligament complex, are given due consideration.
Initial arthroscopic medial retinacular repair was not followed by improved patellar stability nor reduced incidence of redislocations compared with nonoperative (except for removal of loose bodies) treatment. Acute arthroscopic medial retinacular repair allowed patients to better regain preinjury activity level than in patients not undergoing retinacular repair. The decision to stabilize the patella by initial arthroscopic surgery should be made with caution.
Patellar dislocators who present with a history of patellofemoral instability are more likely to be female, are older, and have greater risk of subsequent patellar instability episodes than first-time patellar dislocators. Risk of recurrent patellar instability episodes in either knee is much higher in this group than in first-time dislocators.
Knee-specific scales yielded higher reliability coefficients and stronger validity than did general health instruments. Knee-specific, general health, and activity level instruments are complementary and in combination provide a more complete assessment for patients with patellar dislocation.
Further, well-designed randomised controlled trials assessing different conservative management strategies with specific patient groups, to provide pre-intervention as well as follow-up data, are required to determine the optimal clinical outcomes of physiotherapy for patients following a lateral patellar dislocation.
Opsoclonus-ataxia caused by neuroblastoma causes substantial developmental sequelae that are not adequately prevented by current treatment. The increased deficits in older children raise concern that this represents a progressive encephalopathy rather than a time-limited single insult. Although the study is cross-sectional and neither randomized nor blinded, we were unable to confirm a purported advantage of either ACTH over corticosteroids or of cyclophosphamide. A randomized study is needed but is difficult for this rare condition.
The dietary zinc intake of these breastfed infants appeared to be adequate, given that zinc supplementation did not affect growth, development, or risk of infection (although sample size for detection of differences in development or infection was limited). Previously described differences in growth between breastfed and formula-fed infants in such populations do not appear to be due to differences in zinc nutriture.
Although there was satisfactory recovery in malnourished children with persistent diarrhea receiving the Khitchri-yogurt diet, there was no evidence of improved weight gain or acceleration of recovery from diarrhea with zinc supplementation. In contrast, the reduction in plasma copper levels in zinc-supplemented malnourished children suggests that caution should be exercised in supplementing severely malnourished children with zinc alone.
Provision of additional zinc, either in an aqueous supplement or a fortified porridge, did not significantly affect the children's physical growth or morbidity from infections, possibly because they were not sufficiently growth-restricted or zinc-deficient initially or because the level of zinc intake or absorption was inadequate. Additional studies of the functional effect of zinc-fortified foods are needed in populations that are known to respond to zinc supplements.
Zinc deficiency impairing lean body mass and weight gain was documented. However, the effect of zinc seen over the first three months vanished during the last nine months when the food programme was in operation. Zinc deficiency may have persisted, but another nutrient may have become growth limiting during the last nine months.
Our results show that a long-term zinc supplementation increases plasma vitamin A levels in middle-aged and older people of similar characteristics to those involved in this study. Moreover, supplementation influences serum zinc levels but does not affect erythrocyte zinc concentration and both plasma vitamin E and erythrocyte folate status.
Use of flavored cod liver oil and a multivitamin-mineral with selenium as adjunctive therapy for children with chronic/recurrent sinusitis is an inexpensive, non-invasive intervention that clinicians can use for selected patients, pending the performance of definitive, large, well-controlled studies.
Mini-implants provided absolute anchorage to allow greater skeletal, dental, and esthetic changes in patients requiring maximum anterior retraction, when compared with other conventional methods of space closure. The treatment changes were favorable. However, no differences in the mean retraction time were noted between the 2 groups.
OMIs are a predictable, effective, and well-tolerated anchorage source for adolescents. Neither the timing of force application nor the force itself precipitated failure of the OMIs. Orthodontic forces can be applied immediately to OMIs. Various anatomic and behavioral conditions unique to adolescents and a clinical learning curve can affect the success rate of OMIs.
Miniscrews provided firm anchorage for anterior retraction. Selection of the placement site appeared to be an important determinant for the resultant displacement pattern of the incisor segment. Discriminative intrusion or retraction might be obtained via strategic miniscrew positioning.
Unlike with utility arches, true maxillary incisor intrusion can be achieved by application of intrusive forces close to the center of resistance by using miniscrews with no counteractive movements in the molars.
Mini-implants are efficient for intraoral anchorage reinforcement for en-masse retraction and intrusion of maxillary anterior teeth. No anchorage loss was seen in either the horizontal or the vertical direction in G1 when compared with G2. However, a statistically significant decrease in intermolar width was noted in G1.
Skeletal molar anchorage proved to be more effective than the conventional anchorage. Hence, skeletal anchorage is preferable, especially when patients are in serious need of preoperative decompensation. The anterior palate has proven to be an advantageous region for insertion in conjunction with the correct mechanics.
All 14 articles described success rates sufficient for orthodontic treatment. Placement protocols varied markedly. Screws under 8 mm in length and 1.2 mm in diameter should be avoided. Immediate or early loading up to 200 cN was adequate and showed no significant influence on screw stability.
The skeletal anchorage of the midpalatal implant, mini-implant, and onplant offer better alternatives to headgear, with less anchorage loss and more anterior teeth retraction. There were inconsistent results from the included studies in terms of maxillary incisor inclination, positional change of maxillary basal bone, and treatment duration. More qualified RCTs are required to provide clear recommendations.
Orthodontic miniscrew implants have a modest small mean failure rate, indicating their usefulness in clinical practice. Although many factors seem to affect their failure rates, the majority of them still need additional evidence to support any possible associations.
In this single-dose study, aspirin 500 and 1000 mg and acetaminophen 500 and 1000 mg were more effective against fever and other symptoms of URTI than placebo. Both active treatments showed dose-related efficacy, and there was no significant difference between equal doses of the 2 agents. Safety profiles and tolerability were also comparable between treatments.
Diclofenac potassium administered as single doses of 12.5 and 25mg significantly reduced fever and throat pain in patients with acute febrile sore throat. The overall efficacy of these doses was rated significantly higher than that of paracetamol 1000mg or placebo. A dose-response relationship was seen between placebo and the three diclofenac doses. On most outcomes, paracetamol 1000mg was similar to or only slightly better than the diclofenac potassium 6.25mg dose. Diclofenac potassium 12.5mg is the lowest unit dose that could be recommended to provide reliable reduction of oral temperature and relief of throat pain.
The elderly and patients with a history of peptic ulcer could benefit the most from a reduction in NSAID gastrotoxicity. Whenever possible, physicians may wish to recommend lower doses to reduce the UGIB risk associated with all individual NSAIDs, especially in the subgroup of patients with the greatest background risk.
Zn salts that flocculate at physiological pH adsorb unconjugated bilirubin almost completely from unsaturated micellar BS solutions. In addition, Zn salts administered orally suppress biliary bilirubin secretion rates in hamsters. These findings suggest that the administration of Zn salts may inhibit the enterohepatic cycling of unconjugated bilirubin in humans who are predisposed to pigment gallstone formation due to diet, disease or drugs.
Although WA-GER is uncommon, acid GER is prevalent in children with CF. It is a primary phenomenon and is not secondary to cough. One third of the children with CF have BA in saliva, which may indicate an increased risk for aspiration. However, the impact of salivary BA and potential aspiration on CF pulmonary disease needs further investigation.
Most trials with negative results did not have large enough sample sizes to detect a 25% or a 50% relative difference. This result has not changed over time. Few trials discussed whether the observed differences were clinically important. There are important reasons to change this practice. The reporting of statistical power and sample size also needs to be improved.
1) Infants with daily or problematic regurgitation at 6 to 12 months of age outgrew this within the following year. 2) Infants with daily or problematic regurgitation were more likely to develop feeding problems. 3) There was no increase in respiratory illnesses in infants with a history of regurgitation.
The hepatic iron concentration is a reliable indicator of total body iron stores in patients with thalassemia major. In patients with transfusion-related iron overload, repeated determinations of the hepatic iron concentration can provide a quantitative means of measuring the long-term iron balance.
This randomized trial provided no evidence of a substantial reduction in the duration of mechanical ventilation or length of stay, in either the intensive care unit or the hospital, with the use of protocol-directed sedation compared with usual local management. Qualified high-intensity nurse staffing and routine Australian intensive care unit nursing responsibility for many aspects of ventilatory practice may explain the contrast between these findings and some recent North American studies.
Pressure support and SBTs are common features of weaning in Canadian teaching hospitals. Compared to the published literature, our survey suggests that weaning practices have evolved over time and that practice variation may be greater on an international level compared to a national level.
The rate of candidemia in our neonatal intensive care unit increased >11-fold in the 15 years from 1981 to 1995; the prevalent Candida species shifted from C. albicans to C. parapsilosis; and candidemia associated with C. albicans has significantly higher mortality than with C. parapsilosis.
Central venous catheter colonization and multiple-site colonization are independent risk factors and predictors of progression to fungal sepsis in preterm very low birth weight neonates colonized by Candida spp during their stay in the NICU. Fluconazole prophylaxis is an independent protective factor. These findings can be used to improve the surveillance, prophylaxis, or preemptive measures in neonates at high risk.
Optimal cutoff values for these markers in detecting late onset systemic infection in very low birthweight infants have been defined. Withholding antibiotic treatment at the onset of infection could be fatal and is not recommended, but the concomitant use of IL-6 and C-reactive protein or TNF alpha should allow antimicrobial treatment to be discontinued at 48 hours without waiting for microbiological results, provided that the infants are in good clinical condition.
The majority of DTA review authors mention or investigate publication bias. They mainly use suboptimal methods like the Begg and Egger tests that are not developed for DTA meta-analyses. Our comparison of the Begg, Egger and Deeks tests indicated that these tests do give different results and thus are not interchangeable. Deeks' test is recommended for DTA meta-analyses and should be preferred.
Seborrheic dermatitis and pityriasis capitis are common in early childhood. Most children have minimal to mild disease that would require little if any treatment. Education programs directed at those caring for preschool-aged children are needed to provide information on simple preventative measures and treatment, if necessary, that could easily reduce the morbidity associated with these very common conditions.
The results of this study showed no difference in survival probabilities among different core restorations under a covering crown of endodontically treated teeth. The preservation of substantial remaining coronal tooth structure seems to be critical to the long-term survival of endodontically treated crowned teeth.
In this randomized, blinded trial of feeding of extremely premature infants, we found that, as a substitute for MM, DM offered little observed short-term advantage over PF for feeding extremely premature infants. Advantages to an exclusive diet of MM were observed in terms of fewer infection-related events and shorter hospital stays.
A brief period of dietary intervention after preterm birth, principally between 26 and 34 weeks of gestation, affected IQ at age 16 years. A standard-nutrient diet was associated with lower VIQ, accounted for mainly by differences in verbal comprehension, which persisted after control of social factors.
A distinction should be made between shallow wounds and abrasions when wound healing is being measured. There was no evidence of a real difference between honey and IntraSite Gel as healing agents. Honey is a safe, satisfying and effective healing agent. Natural honey is extremely costeffective.
In hypertensive children 6 to 16 years of age, losartan given once daily reduced blood pressure in a dose-dependent fashion. A once-daily starting dose of losartan, 0.75 mg/kg (maximum 50 mg) effectively lowered DBP within 3 weeks. Losartan up to a dosage of 1.44 mg/kg (maximum 100 mg) once daily is generally well tolerated.
Losartan therapy was associated with prolonged and sustained antihypertensive and renoprotective benefits in children with a variety of chronic renal parenchymal disorders. Such benefit may be more pronounced in children with combined hypertension and proteinuria. The agent was well tolerated in the majority of the children.
In this short-term, crossover study of adolescents with newly diagnosed hypertension, treatment with allopurinol resulted in reduction of BP. The results represent a new potential therapeutic approach, although not a fully developed therapeutic strategy due to potential adverse effects. These preliminary findings require confirmation in larger clinical trials.
Intensified blood-pressure control, with target 24-hour blood-pressure levels in the low range of normal, confers a substantial benefit with respect to renal function among children with chronic kidney disease. Reappearance of proteinuria after initial successful pharmacologic blood-pressure control is common among children who are receiving long-term ACE inhibition. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The prevalence of excess weight increased markedly over a seven-year period in children in the Seychelles. This is likely to reflect a rapid nutrition transition with increasingly positive energy balance. These findings stress the need for programs and policies aimed at promoting physical activity and healthy nutrition in countries in epidemiological transition.
HBP and pre-HBP in children and adolescents are on the rise. These new findings have implications for the cardiovascular disease public health burden, particularly the risk of a new cardiovascular disease transition. They reinforce the urgent call for early prevention of obesity and HBP and illustrate racial/ethnic disparities in this age group.
The increasing use of oral antidiabetic and antihypertensive pharmacotherapy among children and adolescents, especially in the younger age group, indicates either an increased awareness of treatment needs or increased incidence of cardiovascular risk factors typically associated with adult populations. The decrease in treatment of dyslipidemia may reflect the ongoing controversy regarding statin use.
The prevalence of overweight among children and adolescents and obesity among men increased significantly during the 6-year period from 1999 to 2004; among women, no overall increases in the prevalence of obesity were observed. These estimates were based on a 6-year period and suggest that the increases in body weight are continuing in men and in children and adolescents while they may be leveling off in women.
During dampness remediation, relocation may be health protective and prevent incident building-related respiratory cases. Without relocation of entire workforces, medical surveillance is advisable for secondary prevention of existing building-related disease.
Because of the negative impact on health that indoor mold exposure has, particularly in atopic patients, schools should be routinely tested for fungal contamination. Total mold spore counts should be performed using volumetric air sampling such as the Allergenco MK-3 (Allergenco, San Antonio, TX) because testing air quality via semiquantitative culture sampling alone does not give a true reflection of the extent of fungal contamination. Finally, the standard for a healthy indoor environment should be defined as having <1,000 spores/m3.
This program was effective in reducing asthma morbidity in low-income African-American children and identified specific interventions as possible areas to target in future projects. Furthermore, the intervention was useful in children with persistent asthma symptoms as well as those with less frequent asthma exacerbations.
Evident dampness or mold had consistent positive associations with multiple allergic and respiratory effects. Measured microbiologic agents in dust had limited suggestive associations, including both positive and negative associations for some agents. Thus, prevention and remediation of indoor dampness and mold are likely to reduce health risks, but current evidence does not support measuring specific indoor microbiologic factors to guide health-protective actions.
The lack of evidence linking housing and health may be attributable to pragmatic difficulties with housing studies as well as the political climate in the United Kingdom. A holistic approach is needed that recognises the multifactorial and complex nature of poor housing and deprivation. Large scale studies that investigate the wider social context of housing interventions are required.
We were not able to identify objective measures that characterized self-reported failure to recover from acute infectious mononucleosis. The baseline factors associated with self-reported failure to recover at 2 months differed from those associated with failure to recover at 6 months. Future studies should assess the generalizability of these findings and determine whether interventions can hasten recovery.
IM results in substantial morbidity among university students, reported as more profound in females, and affecting academic studies, physical exercise, and social activities. Immunization to prevent IM and strategies to reduce post-IM disability would be beneficial in this population.
This process evaluation identifies some of the most important factors that contributed to the results of this pragmatic trial. It highlights the value of process evaluations as tools to explain the results of randomized trials and emphasizes the importance of implementers as 'street level bureaucrats' who may profoundly affect the way an intervention is administered.
Our pragmatic trial has shown that, in the real world setting of public sector clinics in South Africa, economic support to patients with tuberculosis does not significantly improve outcomes on treatment. However, the low fidelity to the delivery of our voucher meant that a third of eligible patients did not receive it. Among patients in intervention clinics who received the voucher at least once, treatment success rates were significantly improved. Further operational research is needed to explore how best to ensure the consistent and appropriate delivery of such support to those eligible to receive it.
Education or the promise of an incentive improved initial follow-up. Education was superior to an incentive for the completion of therapy. Fairly modest strategies provided in jail can improve adherence. Further links between jail health services and community care should be explored.
In ESCAPE, the choice of medications was mainly determined by the treatment site. Use of inotropic agents was associated with adverse outcomes, whereas the use of vasodilators was not. Inotropes in combination with vasodilators identified a group with the highest mortality. Prospective studies are needed to establish the appropriate use of vasoactive medications in this population.
Levosimendan can be safely administered to infants and children with severe heart failure. Levosimendan allowed for substantial reduction in catecholamine infusions in children with end-stage or acute heart failure and also produced an objective improvement in myocardial performance in children with acute heart failure.
Endotracheal suctioning is a procedure used regularly in the pediatric intensive care unit. Despite this, good evidence supporting its practice is limited. Further, controlled clinical studies are needed to develop evidence-based protocols for endotracheal suctioning of infants and children, and to examine the impact of different suctioning techniques on the duration of ventilatory support, incidence of nosocomial infection, and length of pediatric intensive care unit and hospital stay.
In ambulatory patients with type 2 diabetes, anemia, and CKD, TnT and NT-pro-BNP levels frequently are elevated. These cardiac-derived biomarkers enhance prediction of ESRD beyond established risk factors. Measurement of TnT and NT-pro-BNP may improve the identification of patients with CKD who are likely to require renal replacement therapy, supporting a link between cardiac injury and the development of ESRD.
The use of darbepoetin alfa in patients with diabetes, chronic kidney disease, and moderate anemia who were not undergoing dialysis did not reduce the risk of either of the two primary composite outcomes (either death or a cardiovascular event or death or a renal event) and was associated with an increased risk of stroke. For many persons involved in clinical decision making, this risk will outweigh the potential benefits. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
With several-fold more patient-years and a placebo arm, TREAT will provide a robust estimate of the safety and efficacy of darbepoetin alfa and generate prospective data regarding the risks of major cardiovascular and renal events in a contemporarily managed cohort of patients with type 2 diabetes, CKD, and anemia.
In the TREAT placebo arm, Hb levels were stable with no or minimal protocol-directed darbepoetin alfa during 2.3 years of follow-up. Most patients with moderate anemia, non-dialysis-dependent CKD, and type 2 diabetes are able to maintain a stable Hb level without implementing long-term erythropoiesis-stimulating agent therapy.
The 2-fold increase in stroke with darbepoetin alfa in TREAT could not be attributed to any baseline characteristic or to postrandomization blood pressure, hemoglobin, platelet count, or dose of treatment. These readily identifiable factors could not be used to mitigate the risk of darbepoetin alfa-related stroke.
A poor initial hematopoietic response to darbepoetin alfa was associated with an increased subsequent risk of death or cardiovascular events as doses were escalated to meet target hemoglobin levels. Although the mechanism of this differential effect is not known, these findings raise concern about current target-based strategies for treating anemia in patients with chronic kidney disease. (Funded by Amgen; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Limitations included lack of an epoetin alfa comparator and limited blinding (patients were blinded to treatment, however, an unblinded nurse administered treatment). We show that sc injection of epoetin beta is significantly less painful than darbepoetin alfa and patient preference for epoetin beta confirms that the difference is clinically meaningful.
UPD does not improve the inflammatory status evaluated by darbepoetin requirements in conventional HD patients treated with low-flux polyamide dialyser. Further controlled studies are required to evaluate the clinical influence of UPD in HD with other low- and high-flux membranes.
Subcutaneous injections of darbepoetin-alpha are more painful than those of epoetin-beta in the majority of paediatric patients. The observed difference in painfulness is related to the nature of the injected compounds and may limit the subcutaneous applicability of darbepoetin-alpha in children.
These studies in healthy volunteers and patients with chronic kidney disease indicate that the pharmacokinetics of epoetin delta are dose dependent but nonlinear, leading to dose-dependent increases in hemoglobin levels. The pharmacodynamic response to epoetin delta appeared to be as expected for an epoetin.
The reticulocyte dynamic was a more sensitive marker of time instability of the hemoglobin response under ESAs therapy. The ESAs administration interval had a greater impact on hemoglobin variability than the ESAs type. The more protracted reticulocyte response induced by C.E.R.A. could explain both, the observed higher risk of overshoot and the significant increase in efficacy when shortening its administration interval.
The administration of epoetin alfa in extended-dosing intervals of Q2W followed by Q4W was safe and effective in the treatment of anemia in subjects with CKD who reside in LTC facilities.
The efficacy of peginesatide (administered monthly) was similar to that of darbepoetin (administered every 2 weeks) in increasing and maintaining hemoglobin levels. However, cardiovascular events and mortality were increased with peginesatide in patients with chronic kidney disease who were not undergoing dialysis. (Funded by Affymax and Takeda Pharmaceutical; ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
The combination of moderately decreased kidney function and anemia is associated with an increased risk of CHD events and mortality, emphasizing the need to identify individuals with these conditions and evaluate interventions to treat anemia and slow the progression of chronic kidney disease.
Partial correction of anemia through ESA treatment has a consistent and positive impact on VO(2peak). ESA treatment improves patient- and clinician-assessed physical functioning.
Aggregated results from multiple studies suggest that in severe anemia conventional Hb targets for EPO therapy are associated with a reduction in LVMi, but that in moderate anemia target Hb above 12 g/dl does not have a significant beneficial impact on LVMi compared with conventional targets.
In such urban slums in the 1990s, five 6-monthly rounds of single dose anthelmintic treatment of malnourished, poor children initially aged 1-5 years results in substantial weight gain. The ICDS system could provide a sustainable, inexpensive approach to the delivery of anthelmintics or micronutrient supplements to such populations. As, however, we do not know the control parasite burden, these results are difficult to generalize.
Six monthly albendazole reduces the risk of stunting with a small increase in the expenditure on health care from the payer's perspective. Larger trials are needed to study the effect of albendazole on prevention of stunting, cognitive functions and all-cause childhood mortality.
Pedestrian safety education can change observed road crossing behaviour, but whether this reduces the risk of pedestrian injury in road traffic crashes is unknown. There is a lack of good evidence of effectiveness of safety education for adult pedestrians, specially elderly people. None of the trials was conducted in low or middle income countries.
These results provide guidance for transportation planners and engineers: at local street intersections, traditional stops are safer than traffic circles, and at non-intersections, cycle tracks alongside major streets and traffic diversion from local streets are safer than no bicycle infrastructure.
Systematic reviews are able to provide evidence about effective ways of improving health through transport related interventions and also identify well intentioned but harmful interventions. Valuable additional information may exist in primary studies and systematic reviews have a role in evaluating and synthesising their findings.
The prevalence of pedestrian overpass use was low with adult males least likely to use it. Pedestrians had a high perception of risk, which did not seem to influence overpass use. Pedestrian were more likely to be injured during slow traffic flows. There were more traffic crashes, and pedestrian injuries, but fewer fatalities after the construction of the overpass.
Although few driver education curricula have been carefully evaluated, in the absence of evidence that driver education reduces crash involvement rates for young persons, schools and communities should consider other ways to reduce motor vehicle-related deaths in this population, such as graduated licensing.
Use of HDM-impermeable encasings resulted in a significant decrease in Der p 1 and Der p 1 plus Der f 1 allergen concentrations. However, this reduction in allergen load did not result in significant changes in clinical parameters between the groups. Reduction of allergens in other environments (work, school, and outdoors) might be equally important in improving symptoms of AD.
Mite-proof bedding covers, as part of a structured allergy-control program, reduced the level of exposure to mite allergens. Despite the success of the intervention, this single avoidance measure did not lead to a significant improvement of clinical symptoms in patients with allergic rhinitis.
Occlusive bedding significantly reduced HDM exposure in bed (P<0.001) and eczema severity, and sCD30 levels decreased significantly (P<0.001). Patients not sensitized to HDM and not exposed to HDM allergens benefited equally from use of the bedcovers, a result which could be due to a reduction of other important allergens, superantigens, or irritants in bed. We therefore recommend the use of bedcovers as part of treatment for AD.
The results signify that AD is an important cause of economic burden both to the NHS and to the families of affected children. Using population census data and the results in this study, we estimated that the annual U.K. cost of AD in children aged 1-5 years in 1995-96 was pound47 million.
Despite anecdotal lists in textbooks and review articles, very little good evidence exists for 'flare factors' in eczema. The focus of all of the included studies was on disease worsening rather than clinically relevant flares. Studies of longitudinal design are required to clarify the roles of these and other putative flare factors in eczema.
Parents of youth with chronic illnesses experience sleep disruptions, providing a potential mechanism to explain elevated rates of negative daytime functioning found in previous studies. To provide interventions and support for these parents, additional research is needed to address the limitations of the existing literature.
Trials have tended to be small and of poor methodological quality, making it difficult to offer any definitive recommendations. Interventions that achieve substantial reductions in HDM load may offer some benefit in reducing rhinitis symptoms. Isolated use of HDM impermeable bedding is unlikely to prove effective.
Filaggrin gene defects increase the risk of developing allergic sensitisation, atopic eczema, and allergic rhinitis. Evidence of the relation between filaggrin gene mutations and atopic eczema was strong, with people manifesting increased severity and persistence of disease. Filaggrin gene mutations also increased the risk of asthma in people with atopic eczema. Restoring skin barrier function in filaggrin deficient people in early life may help prevent the development of sensitisation and halt the development and progression of allergic disease.
Therapy with the 308-nm excimer laser is safe and effective in pigment correction of hypopigmented scars and striae alba. Mean final pigment correction rates relative to control sites of approximately 60% to 70% by visual assessment and 100% by colorimetric analysis were observed after 9 treatments administered biweekly. Maintenance treatment every 1 to 4 months is required to sustain the cosmetic benefit.
Our data indicate that pediatric sedation/anesthesia for procedures outside the operating room is unlikely to yield serious adverse outcomes in a collection of institutions with highly motivated and organized sedation services. However, the safety of this practice depends on the systems' ability to manage less serious events.
The experience of interpersonal violence is correlated with rapid repeat pregnancy among low-income adolescents. This study strongly suggests a need for both extensive screening for partner and family violence among pregnant and postpartum adolescents, and follow-up safety planning support in combination with family planning interventions.
This study shows that the administration of DCS before ET enhances treatment outcomes for SAD. Results also provide the first preliminary evidence to suggest that DCS moderates the relationship between a reduction in negative appraisals about one's speech performance and improvement in overall SAD symptoms.
A single administration of d-cycloserine combined with exposure therapy can lead to lasting changes in ventromedial and other prefrontal cortex response to phobic stimuli. These changes are qualitatively different from those seen in patients receiving exposure therapy without d-cycloserine.
This pilot study extends support for the role of d-cycloserine in enhancing therapeutic learning from exposure-based cognitive-behavior therapy and is the first to do so in a protocol emphasizing exposure to feared internal sensations of anxiety in panic disorder.
A six-session virtual reality treatment was associated with reduction in PTSD diagnoses and symptoms in Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, although there was no control condition for the virtual reality exposure. There was no advantage of D-cycloserine for PTSD symptoms in primary analyses. In secondary analyses, alprazolam impaired recovery and D-cycloserine enhanced virtual reality outcome in patients who demonstrated within-session learning. D-cycloserine augmentation reduced cortisol and startle reactivity more than did alprazolam or placebo, findings that are consistent with those in the animal literature.
These results complement findings in adult OCD and non-OCD anxiety disorders and provide initial support for a more extensive study of DCS augmentation of CBT among youth with OCD.
D-cycloserine appears to enhance the benefits of exposure treatment when applied after a successful session, but it seems to have detrimental effects when administered after inadequate/unsuccessful exposure sessions.
These data provide support for the use of D-cycloserine as an augmentation of behavior therapy for OCD and extend findings in animals and other human disorders suggesting that behavior therapy acts by way of long-term potentiation of glutamatergic pathways and that the effects of behavior therapy are potentiated by an NMDA agonist.
In contrast to studies of healthy individuals, we found enhanced acquisition of conditioned fear in women with PTSD. Greater fear conditioning in women may either be a pre-existing vulnerability trait or an acquired phenomenon that emerges in a sex-dependent manner after the development of PTSD. Characterizing the underlying mechanisms of these differences is needed to clarify sex-related differences in the pathophysiology of PTSD.
D-Cycloserine appears to be an effective augmentation agent that enhances the effects of behavioral therapy in the treatment of anxiety disorders. In contrast to a previous meta-analysis that examined D-cycloserine's effects in both animals and humans, we found no evidence of an effect of dose number, dose timing, or dosage of D-cycloserine on reported efficacy in the ranges studied.
The prevalence of psychiatric disorders is greater than previously thought to be the case. Furthermore, this morbidity is more highly concentrated than previously recognized in roughly one sixth of the population who have a history of three or more comorbid disorders. This suggests that the causes and consequences of high comorbidity should be the focus of research attention. The majority of people with psychiatric disorders fail to obtain professional treatment. Even among people with a lifetime history of three or more comorbid disorders, the proportion who ever obtain specialty sector mental health treatment is less than 50%. These results argue for the importance of more outreach and more research on barriers to professional help-seeking.
Calcium supplementation during pregnancy leads to an important reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and preeclampsia. While pregnant women at risk of preeclampsia should consider taking calcium, many more patient events are needed to confirm calcium's impact on maternal and fetal morbidity.
Histamine-2 receptor antagonists may cause agitation and headache in infants. A possibly efficacious famotidine dose for infants is 0.5 mg/kg (frequency adjusted for age). As 1.0 mg/kg may be more efficacious in some, the dosage may require individualization based on response. Further sizeable placebo-controlled evaluations of histamine-2 receptor antagonists in infants with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease are warranted.
Nocturnal acid breakthrough is common in pediatric patients treated with proton pump inhibitors. Reflux index remains normal in spite of nocturnal acid breakthrough. Symptoms and esophagitis continued to improve during therapy in spite of nocturnal acid breakthrough. There appears to be no additional benefit to supplementation with ranitidine at bedtime.
Esomeprazole 5 or 10 mg may be used to successfully treat erosive esophagitis and symptoms of GERD in children as young as 1 year. Moreover, although not yet validated in pediatric patients, the Los Angeles classification system was useful in grading erosive esophagitis in children ages 12 to 36 months.
The use of sodium alginate in preterm infants seems to be promising, because this drug decreases gastro-oesophageal reflux acidity and height with the advantage of a nonsystemic way of action and a more favourable safety profile over H2 blockers and PPIs.
Omeprazole is effective in the short-term treatment of severe oesophagitis in children. The daily dose of the drug could be easily based on the body weight. The persistence of histologic features of esophagitis in spite of clinical and endoscopic healing could be an indicator of poor outcome.
GOR is perceived to be a common condition in preterm infants but the lack of published evidence relating to the management of GOR in preterm infants is reflected in the wide variation in diagnostic and treatment strategies used in major NICUs. It is clear that randomized, controlled trials to evaluate appropriate and effective treatments are needed.
Omeprazole is well tolerated, highly effective, and safe for treatment of erosive esophagitis and symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux in children, including children in whom antireflux surgery or other medical therapy has failed. On a per-kilogram basis, the doses of omeprazole required to heal erosive esophagitis are much greater than those required for adults.
Remission of erosive oesophagitis is maintained with omeprazole treatment for at least 21 months in most children aged 1-16 years, and the drug is well tolerated. To maintain remission, some 60% of patients require more than half the dose required for healing. In children with GERD-predisposing conditions, GERD is often chronic and relapsing, and requires long-term management.
Prophylaxis with systemic antibiotics has a beneficial effect in burns patients, but the methodological quality of the data is weak. As such prophylaxis is currently not recommended for patients with severe burns other than perioperatively, there is a need for randomised controlled trials to assess its use.
Covalent end point surface heparinization appears to have a great impact on both in vitro and in vivo bacterial colonization of central venous catheters. Such heparinization can be a practical and economical approach to the prevention of catheter-associated bacteremia or fungemia.
Scanning electron microscopic images of heparin-bonded pulmonary artery catheters demonstrate thrombus formation on the balloon 24 hrs after pulmonary artery catheter insertion, increasing dramatically at 72 and 120 hrs. The shaft was colonized by single cells only. The thrombus size is not significantly different during the observation time, but the grade and quality of thrombus formation differ.
Unilateral P6 acupressure with Sea-Band applied at the end of surgery together with prophylactic ondansetron did not significantly reduce PONV or the need for rescue antiemetics in patients undergoing craniotomy. Our study confirmed that PONV is a common issue after craniotomy, especially after infratentorial surgery.
Perioperative P6 electroacupuncture in awake patients significantly reduced the occurrence of nausea compared with the sham and control groups, but it did not significantly reduce the incidence or number of episodes of emesis or the use of rescue antiemetics. Sham acupuncture may exacerbate the severity but not the incidence of emesis. The efficacy of P6 acupuncture for PONV prevention is similar to commonly used pharmacotherapies. Its appropriate role in prevention and treatment of PONV requires further study.
Intensive and conventional treatment group subjects without diagnosable neuropathy at DCCT completion had significant differences in electrophysiologic measurements favoring the intensive treatment group. Differences in subsequent incident neuropathy between the original treatment groups may reflect, in part, their levels of subclinical neuropathy at DCCT completion, rather than persistent metabolic effects.
Higher insulin resistance at baseline in the DCCT (as estimated by eGDR) was associated with increased subsequent risk of both micro- and macrovascular complications. Insulin dose and the presence of IDF-defined metabolic syndrome were poor predictors by comparison. Although intensive treatment was associated with a higher subsequent prevalence of metabolic syndrome, the benefits of improved glycemia appear to outweigh the risks related to development of the metabolic syndrome.
The relationship between MPG and HbA(1c) is not constant but differs depending on the glycemic control of the population being studied. Having lower mean glucose at the same HbA(1c) may help explain why intensive DCCT treatment appeared intrinsically linked to both increased hypoglycemia and decreased microvascular complications compared with conventional treatment. These findings may also have implications for expressing HbA(1c) as mean blood glucose equivalent.
A1C explains virtually all of the difference in risk of complications between the intensive and conventional groups, and a given A1C level has similar effects within the two treatment groups. While other components of hyperglycemia, such as glucose variation, may contribute to the risk of complications, such factors can only explain a small part of the differences in risk between intensive and conventional therapy over time.
Intensive therapy in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus reduced levels of sICAM-1 and increased levels of sTNF-R1 and of hsCRP among those who gained weight. These data demonstrate that the effect of intensive therapy on inflammation is complex and, to the extent that hsCRP is a risk factor, suggest that the risk of atherosclerosis among diabetic patients may be influenced by the degree of weight gain while undergoing intensive therapy.
The major adverse effect of intensive therapy of IDDM is a threefold increase in the risk of severe hypoglycemia with potentially serious sequelae. An increased incidence of becoming overweight, the long-term significance of which has yet to be determined, was also observed. Because the results of the DCCT were attained in highly selected, healthy IDDM patients who received attentive clinical management and frequent health education, DCCT adverse event rates may not reflect incidence or prevalence rates that would be expected in nonselected populations or in other clinical settings.
Intensive therapy for type 1 diabetes helps sustain endogenous insulin secretion, which, in turn, is associated with better metabolic control and lower risk for hypoglycemia and chronic complications. These observations underscore the importance of initiating intensive diabetic management as early as safely possible after type 1 diabetes is diagnosed.
Pregnancy in type 1 diabetes induces a transient increase in the risk of retinopathy; increased ophthalmologic surveillance is needed during pregnancy and the first year postpartum. The long-term risk of progression of early retinopathy and albumin excretion, however, does not appear to be increased by pregnancy.
In the DCCT, intensive treatment of IDDM increased the frequency of severe hypoglycemia relative to conventional therapy. Intensive treatment may cause even more frequent severe hypoglycemia when applied to less selected and less motivated populations in the clinical practice setting. These findings underscore the importance of determining the benefit-risk ratio of intensive and standard therapy of IDDM.
Over a lifetime, DCCT-defined intensive therapy reduces complications, improves quality of life, and can be expected to increase length of life. From a health care system perspective, intensive therapy is well within the range of cost-effectiveness considered to represent a good value.
Intensive therapy with improved glycaemic control for three years had no impact on the progression of albuminuria in insulin dependent diabetic patients with microalbuminuria. The reduction in blood pressure in the conventional therapy group may have affected outcome--in that arterial blood pressure rather than glycated haemoglobin concentration seemed to be the main predictor of progression from microalbuminuria to clinical albuminuria.
This trial indicates a causal relationship between hyperglycemia and an important lesion of diabetic nephropathy, mesangial matrix expansion, in renal allografts transplanted into diabetic recipients. In addition, the results with other lesions central to the development of diabetic nephropathy support the major conclusion.
These results indicate a selective relative memory impairment associated with IT that is consistent with the effects of severe hypoglycemia and medial temporal damage or dysfunction. If larger prospective studies determine that severe hypoglycemia is the mediating factor for this memory impairment, extreme caution in imposing overly strict standards for glucose control in young patients with type 1 diabetes would be indicated because of the increased risk of hypoglycemia associated with IT regimens.
SH did not induce adverse changes in the measures of cognitive function administered to 6- to 15-year-old children with type 1 diabetes in this study. Although SH should be avoided in all children with diabetes, these episodes did not have adverse effects on cognition in this age-group over 18 months.
All three SMC groups realized similar glycemic benefits from IT. The mean HbA(1c) levels of low-SMC patients in the UC group increased markedly over 18 months, whereas HbA(1c) levels of low-SMC patients in the IT group did not differ significantly from that of moderate- and high-SMC patients. Relative to their UC counterparts, low-SMC patients derived greater glycemic benefit from IT than did moderate- or high-SMC youth. SMC may be more critical to the success of UC than IT. Perhaps more importantly, patients should not be denied access to IT on the basis of limited competence in diabetes self-management.
In the general diabetic adolescent population, the efficacy of a three-injection regimen is somewhat superior to that of a conventional two-injection regimen, particularly in patients previously poorly controlled. The acceptability of this regimen being excellent, its increased use should be considered in this age-group.
Sweet Talk was associated with improved self-efficacy and adherence; engaging a classically difficult to reach group of young people. While Sweet Talk alone did not improve glycaemic control, it may have had a role in supporting the introduction of intensive insulin therapy. Scheduled, tailored text messaging offers an innovative means of supporting adolescents with diabetes and could be adapted for other health-care settings and chronic diseases.
Worse glycaemic control is associated with a faster rate of progression of diabetic nephropathy once blood pressure is controlled. Thus improvement of glycaemic control in patients where good blood pressure control has been achieved may potentially further delay the progression of nephropathy.
The management of people with diabetes has improved since the late 1990s, but the impact of the quality and outcomes framework on care is not straightforward; upper thresholds may need to be removed or targets made more challenging if people are to benefit. Many patients in whom care may be suboptimal may not be captured in the quality and outcomes framework assessment.
Results of smaller studies are usually compatible with the results of large studies, but discrepancies do occur even when the diversity among both large studies and smaller studies is considered. Clinically important differences without a potential explanation are extremely uncommon. Future research should further examine sources of heterogeneity between the results of large and smaller trials.
The long-term risk of an impaired GFR was significantly lower among persons treated early in the course of type 1 diabetes with intensive diabetes therapy than among those treated with conventional diabetes therapy. (Funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and others; DCCT/EDIC ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
Hypoglycemia is more likely to be associated with cardiac ischemia and symptoms than normoglycemia and hyperglycemia, and it is particularly common in patients who experience considerable swings in blood glucose. These data may be important in the institution of insulin treatment and attempting near-normal glycemia in patients with known CAD. Further research is needed to determine strategies to prevent ischemia associated with hypoglycemia.
Intensive glucose control in patients with poorly controlled type 2 diabetes had no significant effect on the rates of major cardiovascular events, death, or microvascular complications with the exception of progression of albuminuria (P = 0.01) [added]. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
As compared with standard therapy, the use of intensive therapy to target normal glycated hemoglobin levels for 3.5 years increased mortality and did not significantly reduce major cardiovascular events. These findings identify a previously unrecognized harm of intensive glucose lowering in high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Results reveal disease, management, and psychosocial characteristics that differentiate glycemic control-QOL outcome groups and identify risk factors related to this relationship. Further appreciation of these characteristics may increase clinicians' understanding and attention to these important clinical outcomes and help tailor the most appropriate interventions (e.g., individual psychotherapy vs. family problem-solving interventions) to help adolescents achieve glycemic control without sacrificing QOL.
This study supports the evidence for a strong predictive role of baseline albuminuria in the pathogenesis of CHD in type 1 diabetes. Furthermore, sex-specific risk factors such as systolic BP, fasting triglycerides (or HDL cholesterol), and WHR were found to be important in the development of CHD.
The Medalist population is likely enriched for protective factors against complications. These factors might prove useful to the general population with diabetes if they can be used to induce protection against long-term complications. Specific AGE combinations were strongly associated with complications, indicating a link between AGE formation or processing with development of diabetic vasculopathy.
This prospective study indicates that, apart from glycemic control, the incidence of neuropathy is associated with potentially modifiable cardiovascular risk factors, including a raised triglyceride level, body-mass index, smoking, and hypertension.
Discrepant study results regarding the relationship between glycemia and CAD/coronary artery calcification may be related to the prevalence of renal disease and the presence of the metabolic syndrome. Published data suggest that addressing traditional risk factors including albuminuria, the metabolic syndrome, and inflammatory markers is better for preventing and treating CAD than focusing exclusively on glycemic control, which is still necessary for preventing microvascular complications. Furthermore, there is a synergistic effect of glycemic control and albuminuria on the development of CVD.
Small trials are more likely to report larger beneficial effects than large trials in critical care medicine, which could be partly explained by the lower methodological quality in small trials. Caution should be practiced in the interpretation of meta-analyses involving small trials.
Severe hypoglycemia was strongly associated with increased risks of a range of adverse clinical outcomes. It is possible that severe hypoglycemia contributes to adverse outcomes, but these analyses indicate that hypoglycemia is just as likely to be a marker of vulnerability to such events. (Funded by Servier and the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The study demonstrated that a psychoeducational multiple-family group intervention was more effective than standard care in managing negative symptoms over a 12-month period. The results are particularly relevant because negative symptoms are associated with relapse, poor social and occupational functioning, cognitive impairment, and lower subjective quality of life.
Many centers, and even entire countries, have adopted near-infrared spectroscopy as standard of care. The available data suggest that multimodality monitoring, including near-infrared spectroscopy, may be a useful adjunct. The current literature on the use of near-infrared spectroscopy alone, however, does not demonstrate improvement in neurologic outcome. The data correlating near-infrared spectroscopy findings with indirect measures of neurologic outcome or mortality are limited. Although near-infrared spectroscopy has promise for measuring regional tissue oxygen saturation, the lack of data demonstrating improved outcomes limits the support for widespread implementation.
The available evidence indicates that physical activity is a possible protective factor against asthma development. The heterogeneity suggests that possible relevant effects remain hidden in critical age periods, sex differences, or extremes of levels of physical activity (e.g. sedentary). Future longitudinal studies should address these issues.
Intravenous colistin is an effective treatment for Pseudomonas aeruginosa associated pulmonary exacerbations in patients with cystic fibrosis. Assessment of the individual effect of each treatment regimen suggests a greater efficacy when colistin is combined with a second antibiotic to which the pseudomonas shows in vitro sensitivity. Changes in renal function should be monitored.
Dystonia diminished in 10 of 12 patients whose average daily dose of intrathecal baclofen was 575 microg. Overall dystonia scores and scores for the extremities, trunk, and cervical regions were significantly better after infusion (p = 0.003). The two observers' scores were not significantly different. Programmable infusion pumps were subsequently implanted in eight patients for long-term therapy and improvement was sustained in six (p < 0.05). Intrathecal baclofen infusion is a promising treatment option for generalized dystonia associated with CP. The effects of intrathecal baclofen infusion on dystonia can be evaluated by using short-term continuous infusions.
The 10-ml pump can be used therapeutically in small children, particularly those weighing less than 40 lbs, with greater ease and less wound tension, than the conventional 18-ml pump. The incidence of complications associated with the 10-ml pump in younger children appears to be similar to that previously reported with the 18-ml pump in larger-sized children.
Some aspects of speech, communication, and saliva control seemed to have improved, with bowel movement frequency decreased in some children receiving ITB. Fewer changes in feeding and nutritional status were reported. On the basis of this pilot study, prospective management guidelines are proposed that relate objective outcome measures of oral motor function, communication, and nutrition to changes in spasticity with ITB.
ITB therapy is a safe and effective treatment for severe spasticity in the pediatric population, but does have a 31% rate of complications requiring surgical management over a 3-year treatment period. Parents and caregivers have a high rate of satisfaction and most would recommend the treatment to others.
In the authors' group of patients there was notable development and progression of scoliosis at a greater than previously reported rate for the same patient population, and also greater than previously reported patients with intrathecal baclofen pumps. The largest possible confounding factor in this study was the insertion of the pump before skeletal maturity and therefore coinciding with the time when scoliosis may be developing naturally. A prospective study is recommended to gather further data on the development of scoliosis in this particular population with intrathecal baclofen pumps.
These electrophysiological procedures, previously demonstrated to quantify the action of intrathecal baclofen in spastic adults and children, also appear sensitive in dystonic children. The electrophysiological changes are consistent with primarily spinal sites of action of baclofen. They appear more sensitive than clinical evaluation.
In general, observation, wound care, and oral antibiotics are sufficient for wounds that are suspicious for superficial infection. For deep-seated infection, antibiotic therapy alone is generally insufficient and explantation is required. Washout procedures can be considered, but failures are common.
Although excessive weight gain is not a common problem in children with cerebral origin spasticity, increased weight-gain velocity is prevalent in children receiving ITB therapy. Health care providers may anticipate a welcome weight gain in the underweight child. This consequence should be considered when managing children receiving ITB therapy, and health care providers must appropriately intervene to prevent excessive weight gain. Further studies exploring the reasons for the increased weight-gain velocity are warranted.
The authors found that the onset of at least one complication is statistically more likely in patients with Ashworth Scale scores higher than 3 and an age of 10 years or younger. A reduction in the incidence of infection from 10 to 4.8% by the end of the study period appears to be correlated with the switch in technique to subfascial instead of subcutaneous pump implantation and the adoption of a new preoperative prophylaxis protocol in the last 51 patients. There were no statistically significant correlations between the onset of complications and patient weight, ambulatory status, or the presence of dystonia or cerebral palsy.
Children with spastic cerebral palsy can have their spasticity effectively reduced with CIBI. In this study of two children, the clinical improvements were encouraging, and it is proposed that CIBI may be of benefit to those patients whose level of spasticity severely interferes with function. Further studies using multidimensional assessment approaches, with larger numbers of children, are warranted.
The progression of scoliosis in cerebral palsy patients with ITB treatment is not significantly different from those without ITB treatment. The findings suggest that patients receiving ITB experience a natural progression of scoliosis similar to the natural history reported in the literature.
There was no significant difference in the rate of secondary hip reconstructive surgery or dislocation between nonambulatory cerebral palsy patients who underwent SDR versus ITBP. Reconstruction was required for 25% to 32% of hips despite spasticity intervention with either procedure. This suggests that the L1 nerve root alone does not play a major role in the progression of hip dislocation.
Some of these patients had a history of increasing revisions with increasing frequency during ITB therapy. Such a history puts them at risk for spinal arachnoiditis, a condition that complicates further ITB therapy. For such patients, the authors believe that IVB therapy may be a beneficial therapeutic option, given that the surgical revision rate was lower for IVB than for ITB. Intraventricular baclofen may be a cost-effective option for patients with mounting revisions during ITB therapy.
ITB results in statistically significant levels of satisfaction and goal attainment in children with spasticity and/or dystonia. GAS was a useful measure of goal attainment. While, ITB is effective for children with spasticity and dystonia, those with dystonia have a higher rate of complications.
In patients with upper-limb spasticity after stroke, the Ashworth Scale and DAS had good intra- and interrater reliability when used by trained medical professions.
The authors conclude that IBI for treatment of spastic CP reduces the need for subsequent orthopedic surgery for the effects of lower-extremity spasticity. In patients with spastic CP and lower-extremity contractures, spasticity should be treated before orthopedic procedures are performed.
Overcrowding, male sex and HIV infection were major risk factors for prevalent smear-positive TB. Reducing diagnostic delay may have greater potential to improve the control of prevalent TB than interventions targeted at household contacts, TB treatment outcomes, or TB-HIV interventions under current levels of awareness of HIV status.
A global assessment indicates that levocetirizine 5 mg once daily is an effective agent in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria, as its action provides a rapid and satisfactory control of the symptoms and measures of subjective disease, although this is limited to the duration of treatment.
The widespread belief that sleep is aided by the addition of a sedating first-generation H1 -antihistamine, usually hydroxyzine, at night is not supported. These results are in line with the urticaria guidelines, which state that first-line treatment for urticaria should be new-generation, nonsedating H1 -antihistamines only.
Higher levels of aerobic fitness in patients with cystic fibrosis are associated with a significantly lower risk of dying. Although better aerobic fitness may simply be a marker for less severe illness, measurement of VO2 peak appears to be valuable for predicting prognosis. Further research is warranted to determine whether improving aerobic fitness through exercise programs will result in a better prognosis.
Slow rTMS to the right DLPFC resulted in significant clinical improvement and reduction of ipsilateral motor cortex excitability. Replications in larger sample will help to clarify the relevance of this preliminary data and to define the potential role of right DLPFC rTMS in panic with major depression.
In depressed patients, 1-Hz TMS at 100% motor threshold over the left prefrontal cortex induces activation underneath the coil, activates frontal-subcortical neuronal circuits, and decreases activity in the right ventromedial cortex. Further work is needed to understand whether these immediate changes vary as a function of TMS use parameters (intensity, frequency, location) and whether they relate to neurobiologic effects and antidepressant mechanisms of TMS.
Changes in brain metabolism (18FDG uptake) after the treatment either with CBT or with antidepressants were similar in number of brain areas, with prominent right-left difference. This is in concordance with the asymmetry of brain activity noted in patients with PD according to previous PET (and SPECT) studies.
The Panic Disorder Severity Scale is a simple, efficient way for clinicians to rate severity in patients with established diagnoses of panic disorder. However, further research with more diverse groups of panic disorder patients and with a broader range of convergent and discriminant validity measures is needed.
Our results support the hypothesis of increased distractibility for irrelevant information in patients with OCD, PD, and hypochondriasis associated with frontal-striatal and limbic involvement compared with controls. Although patients with OCD did not display an attentional bias in behavior relative to controls, there was a clear, specific neural response during color naming OCD-related words, involving mainly ventral brain regions. In contrast, generalized emotional interference effects were found in PD and hypochondriasis, involving ventral and widespread dorsal brain regions, reflecting not only unconscious emotional stimulus processing but also increased cognitive elaboration.
Alteration of the EMG pattern leads to lessening of complaints, which means that pelvic floor contraction during straining indeed is the cause of the constipation. The results suggest that EMG feedback is more effective than balloon feedback in treating spastic pelvic floor syndrome.
In this controlled trial, stapled transanal rectal resection was well tolerated, was more effective than biofeedback training for the resolution of obstructed defecation symptoms, and improved quality of life, with minimal risk of impaired continence. Thus, stapled transanal rectal resection offers a new treatment alternative for obstructed defecation after failure of conservative measures including biofeedback training, a noninvasive approach.
Biofeedback improves constipation and physiologic characteristics of bowel function in patients with dyssynergia. This effect is mediated by modifying physiologic behavior and colorectal function. Biofeedback is the preferred treatment for constipated patients with dyssynergia.
Biofeedback is the most effective of these treatments, and EGS is somewhat effective. Only patients with tenderness on rectal examination benefit. The pathophysiology of LAS is similar to that of dyssynergic defecation.
Biofeedback treatment affects more than the pelvic floor. Successful outcome after biofeedback treatment is associated with improved activity of the direct cerebral innervation to the gut and improved gut transit. This effect is gut specific; cardiovascular autonomic reflexes were not altered.
Biofeedback helped 73 percent of patients with fecal incontinence, and its use should be considered regardless of the cause or severity of incontinence or of results on initial manometry. In contrast, biofeedback directed at correcting paradoxic external sphincter contraction has been disappointing.
This study suggests that several pre-treatment prognostic factors are associated with response to biofeedback for the constipated patients. Using prognostic factors, we may be able to evaluate the patterns of pelvic floor dysfunction and responsiveness of biofeedback therapy for the patients with constipation.
Sphincter endurance and net strength, as measured by noninvasive electromyography, significantly improve following biofeedback therapy in both constipated and fecal incontinence patients. These data suggest that endurance and net strength may be useful tools in assessing a benefit from biofeedback training in these patients.
(1) Extensive examination (defecography and manometry) before biofeedback retraining of anismus is not mandatory because the failure of retraining (48%) is not related to the presence of associated pelvirectal disorders. (2) A long past history of dyschezia seems to provide an index of the failure of biofeedback retraining.
This large study indicates that the success rate of biofeedback for patients with constipation is less than previously reported. However, the success rate improves significantly after five or more sessions and is significantly related to the patient's willingness to complete treatment.
Constipation is very common, as approximately 63 million people in North America meet the Rome II criteria for constipation. Minimal data are available regarding incidence, natural history, and quality of life in patients with constipation. Effort should be expended toward the study of these topics, particularly in the elderly, who are disproportionately affected by this condition.
The symptomatic improvement produced by biofeedback in constipated patients is associated with improved psychological state and QOL. Some of the psychological morbidity in these patients is reversible. QOL parameters may be useful for predicting a likely response to treatment.
Lithium was not well-tolerated in this cohort of patients with ALS, even at subtherapeutic doses. The 2 doses were equivalent in terms of survival/severe disability and functional data. The relatively high frequency of AEs/SAEs and the reduced tolerability of lithium raised serious doubts about its safety in ALS.
Although the primary end point analysis failed to demonstrate a statistically significant survival effect of BDNF in ALS, post hoc analyses showed that those ALS patients with early respiratory impairment and those developing altered bowel function showed statistically significant benefit. Further clinical trials of BDNF using either intrathecal delivery or high-dose subcutaneous administration are in progress.
At the dose studied, topiramate did not have a beneficial effect for patients with ALS. High-dose topiramate treatment was associated with a faster rate of decline in muscle strength as measured by MVIC and with an increased risk for several adverse events in patients with ALS. Given the lack of efficacy and large number of adverse effects, further studies of topiramate at a dose of 800 mg or maximum tolerated dose up to 800 mg/day are not warranted.
Pentoxifylline is not beneficial in ALS and should be avoided in patients treated with riluzole. The discrepancy between survival and measures of functional changes urges caution in equating these end points in phase III trials, and suggests that both survival and function should be used in phase III trials.
No clear evidence for the mechanism of ectopic discharge in these patients was obtained, probably because the activity was generated focally, and most often at the motor nerve terminals. The unexpected finding of increased excitability overshoots and accommodation compared with age matched controls, suggests a relative up regulation of slow potassium conductance, possibly as a consequence of the continuous motor unit activity.
This randomized pilot study suggests that SMT may be an effective and safe nonpharmacological alternative for relieving the pain and distress of primary dysmenorrhea. However, the large change in KDPGF2a observed in both treatment groups clearly indicates that further studies with more subjects, studied over a longer time frame, are needed to resolve the question of a placebo effect.
It is difficult to estimate the incidence of SMT complications, as they are probably underreported in the literature. Most non-VBA complications can be prevented by excluding patients with contraindications for SMT. Patients who develop complications such as CES should be treated as soon as possible. VBAs, however, are difficult to prevent and treat. Referral for SMT should not be made to practitioners applying rotatory cervical manipulation. Information about the risk of VBA should be included in an informed consent procedure for cervical manipulation with thrust techniques.
This review suggests that large numbers of physicians are either referring to or practicing some of the more prominent and well-known forms of CAM and that many physicians believe that these therapies are useful or efficacious. These data vary considerably across surveys, most likely because of regional differences and sampling methods, suggesting the need for more rigorous surveys using national, representative samples. Finally, outcomes studies are needed so that physicians can make decisions about the use of CAM based on scientific evidence of efficacy rather than on regional economics and cultural norms.
For patients with chronically bleeding grade II or III internal hemorrhoids that are unresponsive to medical therapy, safety and complication rates of banding and BPEC were similar. The success rate was significantly higher with RBL than with BPEC. Symptom recurrence rates at 1 year were similar.
Vitamin A supplements are associated with a significant reduction in mortality when given periodically to children at the community level. Factors that affect the bioavailability of large doses of Vitamin A need to be studied further. Vitamin A supplements should be given to all measles patients in developing countries whether or not they have symptoms of vitamin A deficiency.
Adequate supply of vitamin A, either through supplementation or adequate diet, has a major role in preventing morbidity and mortality in children in developing countries. In developed countries vitamin A may also have a role in those with life threatening infections such as measles and those who may have a relative deficiency, such as premature infants.
Factors to guide a decision to fortify flour with vitamin A include the extent of deficiency, availability of other food vehicle options, the centrality of milling, market reach and population intake distributions of the flour products, the dietary vitamin A intake required, and associated costs. Large gaps persist in knowledge of these factors, which are needed to enable evidence-based fortification in most countries, leaving most decisions to fortify guided by assumptions. Where flour can and should be fortified, guidelines are given for providing nearly 25% of the Recommended Dietary Allowance for vitamin A to vulnerable groups consuming varying ranges of flour products. The costs will vary according to the level of fortification.
A significant amount of retinol was excreted in the urine in children with shigellosis: 8% excreted >0.10 micromol/d (15% of the daily metabolic requirement). Impaired tubular reabsorption of low-molecular-weight proteins, such as RBP transporting retinol, appeared to be the cause of this urinary retinol loss.
These data do not prove a causal relation, but they provide evidence of an association between a high intake of vitamin E and a lower risk of coronary heart disease in men. Public policy recommendations with regard to the use of vitamin E supplements should await the results of additional studies.
Although these prospective data do not prove a cause-and-effect relation, they suggest that among middle-aged women the use of vitamin E supplements is associated with a reduced risk of coronary heart disease. Randomized trials of vitamin E in the primary and secondary prevention of coronary disease are being conducted; public policy recommendations about the widespread use of vitamin E should await the results of these trials.
In conclusion, high-dose pancreatin mini-microspheres improved, but did not normalize, fat absorption, possibly because of the residual influence of diabetes and malnutrition on absorptive function. In view of the brittle nature of blood glucose control in malnourished insulin-dependent patients, enzyme adjustment should be carefully supervised in-hospital.
Pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy in patients with chronic pancreatitis not only reduced the extent of steatorrhea and pain, but also significantly improved a variety of other symptoms and the patient's QoL. Individually tailored enzyme replacement therapy improved the QoL not only in the untreated chronic pancreatitis patients, but also in the inadequately treated group. This study demonstrated that the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, with the addition of two further questions about steatorrhea, is a useful tool for the evaluation of QoL in patients with chronic pancreatitis.
There are two distinct forms of idiopathic chronic pancreatitis. Patients with early-onset pancreatitis have initially and thereafter a long course of severe pain but slowly develop morphological and functional pancreatic damage, whereas patients with late-onset pancreatitis have a mild and often a painless course. Both forms differ from alcoholic pancreatitis in their equal gender distribution and a much slower rate of calcification.
Our study did not show a significant beneficial effect of probiotic supplementation in patients with compensated liver cirrhosis. Nevertheless, it points toward a possible positive effect of probiotics in patients with above normal baseline ammonia levels. This issue requires further investigation in larger cohorts.
The evidence base for medical and nutritional interventions in paediatric IF is limited and of poor quality. In the absence of randomised-controlled trials, this evidence base can improve through case control and cohort research; and with better multiagency communication, the study of inter-centre differences is possible. Achievable short-term goals would include the study of: optimal ursodeoxycholic usage, novel intralipid formulations, cycled enteral antibiotics, enteral probiotics and new enteral feeding strategies.
Our results proved the hypothetical favourable effect of probioticum Enterococcus faecium M-74 + Selenium on chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Interestingly, a markedly higher relative therapeutic effect has been achieved in more serious disorder in comparison with the less severe disorders in the present study.
Early enteral nutrition with fiber-containing solutions and living L plantarum 299 was well tolerated. It decreases markedly the rate of postoperative infections both in comparison with inactivated L plantarum 299 and significantly with SBD and a standard enteral nutrition formula. As it is a cheap and feasible alternative to SBD, further studies should evaluate whether this ecoimmunonutrition should be already started while patients are on the waiting list for transplantation.
The use of prebiotics, probiotics and synbiotics was associated with significant improvement in minimal hepatic encephalopathy. Among individual agents, lactulose appears to have the most beneficial effect, followed closely by probiotics and synbiotics.
Within the limitations of small sample size, there does not appear to be a benefit of probiotic therapy for portal pressure reduction in patients with compensated or early decompensated cirrhosis. The reductions in endotoxin and aldosterone suggest possible beneficial effects of probiotics for this patient population. The clinical significance of the small but unexpected increase in TNF-alpha is unclear. Future studies are planned in patients with decompensated cirrhosis.
Awareness of the tremendous impact of NAFLD as an important cause of chronic liver disease is increasing along with a great deal of information about its pathogenesis. Future, well-designed clinical trials that target specific pathways involved in the pathogenesis of NASH are urgently needed.
The objectives of the round table were met. Robust, defendable guidelines for the conduct of future studies into hepatic encephalopathy have been provided. Outstanding issues are few and will continue to be discussed.
Results from this clinical trial demonstrate that long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation of formula in term infants produces blood lipid fatty acid profiles that are similar to those observed in breast-fed infants. This supplementation leads to better visual function later in life (i.e., 1 year of age) than that shown by infants fed commercial formula.
These results suggest that dietary supplementation of DHA during the first year of life leads to enhanced cognitive development at 18 months of age. DHA concentration of 0.32% is adequate to improve cognitive function; higher concentrations did not confer additional benefit.
These findings do not support adding AA+DHA to formulas containing 10% energy as linoleic acid and 1% energy as alpha-linolenic acid to enhance growth, visual acuity, information processing, general development, language, or temperament in healthy, term infants during the first 14 months after birth.infant development, breast feeding, infant formula, long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids, docosahexaenoic acid.
Despite the 1-wk advance in sitting without support associated with DHA supplementation, no demonstrable persistent effects of DHA supplementation on later motor development milestones were found. Thus, the long-term clinical significance of the 1-wk change in sitting without support, if any, remains unknown. This trial is registered at (clinicaltrials.gov) as 
The addition of docosahexaenoic acid resulted in concentrations in red blood cells at similar levels as those in breast-fed infants, whereas the increase in visual acuity did not reach significance. The addition of gamma-linolenic acid resulted in higher arachidonic acid concentrations in red blood cells.
These data based on considerable sample size provide substantial evidence that LCPUFA supplementation of infant formula does not have a clinically meaningful effect on the neurodevelopment as assessed by Bayley scores at 18 months. Inclusion of all relevant data should not have led to differing conclusions except, possibly, for very-low-birth-weight infants.
  Supplementation with zinc or zinc plus retinol did not lead to better outcomes than placebos, and caution is warranted regarding routine micronutrient supplementation, particularly in patients co-infected with HIV.
Early intervention to increase nutritional intake increases lean mass and physical function. This adjunct to tuberculosis therapy could confer socioeconomic and survival benefits that deserve investigation in large-scale trials. Nutritional intervention after the initial phase of treatment could be less beneficial because it mainly increases fat.
Vitamin D does not improve clinical outcome among patients with TB and the trial showed no overall effect on mortality in patients with TB; it is possible that the dose used was insufficient. Clinical trial registered with www.controlled-trials.com/isrctn (ISRCTN35212132).
We demonstrated transient, but significant, decreases in blood vitamin concentrations during the acute-phase response. Recommendations regarding daily supplementation with these vitamins in clinical practice cannot be made on the basis of these results, as the functional importance of these observations is not, at present, clear. However, what is clear is that biochemical vitamin concentrations, determined during the acute-phase response, should be interpreted with care.
Low serum vitamin D levels are associated with higher risk of active tuberculosis. Although more prospectively designed studies are needed to firmly establish the direction of this association, it is more likely that low body vitamin D levels increase the risk of active tuberculosis. In view of this, the potential role of vitamin D supplementation in people with tuberculosis and hypovitaminosis D-associated conditions like chronic kidney disease should be evaluated.
Even after 6 months of apparently successful antimicrobial chemotherapy, pulmonary tuberculosis is associated with increased oxidative stress, which is unrelated to cigarette smoking and characterized by increased levels of circulating lipid peroxides and low concentrations of plasma vitamin E.
For patients and their families, tuberculosis implies three main types of cost: drugs, transportation and, most importantly, financial loss due to inability to work. They represent around two thirds of total cost and are a high economic burden for households, in particular those with a low-income. While assessing tuberculosis control strategies such as direct case finding at home, it is therefore important to also include costs incurred at household level.
Because the trial methodology of these studies was often inadequate or insufficiently documented, it is difficult to recommend the use of CHMs in ARIs. However, Shuang Huang Lian does appear to be useful for treating lower respiratory tract infections. More rigorous evaluation of CHMs is needed, as they are becoming popular treatments in many countries, including Australia.
The course of sensory stimulation enhanced recovery of postural function, an enhancement still significant 2 years after the lesion and treatment. The differences and near normalization of characteristic parameters of dynamic postural control among treated patients suggest that improved recovery after sensory stimulation may be achieved by patients regaining normal or near normal dynamics of human postural control.
The reviewed treatments for ASD are commonly used, and some are supported by prospective RCTs. Promising treatments include melatonin, antioxidants, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, naltrexone, and music therapy. All of the reviewed treatments are currently considered off-label for ASD (ie, not FDA-approved) and some have adverse effects. Further studies exploring these treatments are needed. Physicians treating children with an ASD should make it standard practice to inquire about each child's possible use of these types of treatments.
The Developmental, Dimensional and Diagnostic Interview (3di) provides an efficient and accurate means of assessing, in dimensional terms, the presence of autistic symptoms in both clinical and normal populations. It offers novel opportunities for those engaged in research and clinical practice.
We conclude that pretreatment with EA increases the production of endocannabinoid 2-arachidonylglycerol and N-arach-idonoylethanolamine-anandamide, which elicits protective effects against transient cerebral ischemia through CB1 receptors. These results suggest a novel mechanism of EA pretreatment-induced rapid tolerance to focal cerebral ischemia.
The authors have successfully applied five ADL items selected and culturally adapted from Older Americans Resources and Services to the study of older Chinese. A consistent and reliable estimate of functional dependence among older persons is obtained. The prevalence of dementia and many self-reported illness, as well as the ADL status by medical condition, are reported. The findings reveal certain patterns of relationship between illness conditions and ADL performance.
We did not find any anticipated negative psychosocial effects on health care personnel undergoing an organizational change. However, by offering a structured intervention program to one group of health care personnel, we found some positive psychosocial effects. Future research is needed to pinpoint which factor or factors in the intervention program were the most crucial for the effects to occur.
Our study results suggest a picture of differentiated changes in stress hormone levels. The I-ward exhibited less psychoendocrine stress compared to the C-ward, probably due to the intervention and the possibility for personnel to influence the programme. We suggest that psychosocial empowerment programmes are beneficial when organizational changes are enacted in health care settings.
The use of 2-week inpatient attending physician rotations compared with 4-week rotations did not result in an increase in unplanned patient revisits. It was associated with better self-rated measures of attending physician burnout and emotional exhaustion but worse evaluations by trainees.
This pilot trial provides data to support the feasibility of the study in terms of recruitment and consent, the intervention and completion rates. Although the outcome data should be treated with caution, the pilot demonstrated the foot massage intervention showed trends in improved mood, reduced anxiety and lower blood pressure in long-term care staff working with older people with dementia. A larger study is needed to build on these promising, but preliminary, findings.
A brief training to enhance resilience and decrease stress among physicians using the SMART program was feasible. Further, the intervention provided statistically significant improvement in resilience, stress, anxiety, and overall quality of life. In the future, larger clinical trials with longer follow-up and possibly wider dissemination of this intervention are warranted.
The majority of participants from two distinct samples reported that the mantram programme was helpful in a variety of situations. The critical incident interviewing method was found to be practical, efficient, and thorough in collecting and analyzing data. Such qualitative methods contribute to understanding the benefits of mind-body complementary therapies.
A data-guided program on physician well-being, using validated instruments and process improvement methods, enhanced physician and organizational well-being. Given the increases in physician burnout, organizations are encouraged to urgently create individual and systems approaches to lessen burnout risk.
An intervention to increase the use of active coping and social support, to reduce reliance on avoidance coping, and to decrease work and family stressors had an overall pattern of beneficial effects on residents' well-being. The importance of offering such programs during residency training, ways to strengthen intervention effectiveness, and areas for future research are discussed.
US surgeons do not reliably calibrate their level of distress. After self-assessment and individualized feedback using the Mayo Clinic Physician Well-Being Index, half of participating surgeons reported that they were contemplating behavioral changes to improve personal well-being.
MBSR is able to reduce stress levels in healthy people. However, important limitations of the included studies as well as the paucity of evidence about possible specific effects of MBSR in comparison to other nonspecific treatments underline the necessity of further research.
Our results suggest that rates of PDD are higher than previously reported. Methodological limitations in existing epidemiological investigations preclude interpretation of recent high rates as indicative of increased incidence of these disorders although this hypothesis requires further rigorous testing. Attention is nevertheless drawn to the important needs of a substantial minority of preschool children.
The principal finding of this study is that real 1 Hz rTMS treatment was capable of significantly reducing the total baseline score of basic scales that measure tinnitus severity. This result is important as it proves that significant reduction of symptoms can be achieved even in a group of patients with long-term symptoms resistant to pharmacological treatment.
rTMS is a promising treatment modality that can transiently diminish tinnitus in some individuals, but further trials are needed to determine the optimal techniques required to achieve a lasting response. It is unclear whether the improved reaction times were caused by tinnitus reduction or a general effect of rTMS. PET/CT scans immediately after treatment suggest that improvement may be related to reduction of cortical asymmetry associated with tinnitus.
Preliminary results indicate that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) can suppress tinnitus for some people. However, several procedural questions need to be addressed before the results of TMS studies can be interpreted or applied. For example, the placebo effect might be a significant factor because it is easy for patients to distinguish between real and sham stimulation.
Even in this early stage of investigation, there is a convincing body of evidence that rTMS represents a promising tool for pathophysiological assessment and therapeutic management of tinnitus. Further development of this technique will depend on a more detailed understanding of the neurobiological effects mediating the benefit of TMS on tinnitus perception. Moreover clinical studies with larger sample sizes and longer follow-up periods are needed.
The risk of tinnitus increases in patients above 55 years old that suffer from metabolic conditions and cervical spondylosis. Tinnitus frequently coexist with bilateral sensorineural hearing impairment and are bilateral or they are noticeable in better hearing ear. The most beneficial to tinnitus is causal and symptomatic treatment with several methods application.
The antidepressant nortriptyline decreases depression, functional disability, and tinnitus loudness associated with severe chronic tinnitus. What appears to be irreversible disability of otologic origin may, in part, be reversible disability of psychiatric origin.
The short form of the QES with 23 items is a valid instrument for the examination of social and psychic burdens of psoriasis and atopic dermatitis patients. The recording of the stigmatization feeling and of the quality of life determines different, supplementary aspects of the illness-related stress of patients with chronic skin diseases.
A significant antitussive effect was demonstrated after 60 mg dextromethorphan and 30 mg dextromethorphan preceded by 50 mg quinidine using an induced cough model. However, although the study was powered to detect a 10% difference in cough response, the observed differences for other contrasts were less than 10%, such that it was possible only to imply a dose effect (30 vs 60 mg) in the antitussive activity of DEX and enhancement of this effect by CYP2D6 inhibition.
Sucking lozenges containing 20 mg or 30 mg ambroxol hydrochloride has a beneficial pain-relieving effect in patients with acute sore throat, superior to that achieved by sucking a placebo lozenge. While both strengths were equally well tolerated, the higher strength of 30 mg ambroxol hydrochloride did not prove more effective. The findings confirm that the previously discovered local anaesthetic properties of ambroxol hydrochloride do have beneficial clinical implications.
In this community-based, randomized controlled trial, ZGG lozenges were not effective in treating cold symptoms in children and adolescents. Further studies with virologic testing are needed to clarify what role, if any, zinc may play in treating cold symptoms.
Sucking lozenges containing 20 mg ambroxol hydrochloride has a beneficial pain relieving effect in patients with acute sore throat, superior to that which otherwise can be achieved by sucking a placebo lozenge. This finding confirms that the preclinical local anaesthetic properties of ambroxol hydrochloride may have beneficial clinical implications.
These results, while modest, are superior to those of spontaneous efforts to stop smoking. Furthermore, they suggest that it is possible to predict which patients are most likely and which are least likely to respond to such brief smoking cessation interventions.
Daily T4 administration during the first 6 weeks after birth to infants of less than 30 weeks gestation prevents hypothyroxinemia, but decreases plasma T3 concentrations. Our finding possibly implies that very preterm infants should receive supplements of both T4 and T3.
The normative data related to birth weight and age at screening allow proper interpretation of VLBW results for primary T4 and primary thyrotropin screening programs. Screening of the concentrations of T4 and thyrotropin in VLBW increases the number of secondary measurements of T4 in a primary thyrotropin screening program and the number of secondary thyrotropin measurements in a primary T4 screening program by 6% and 9%, respectively. We recommend screening analyses for VLBW infants in the latter part of the first week of life and again at 2 and 4 to 6 weeks of age. This protocol would increase the number of screening analyses by 1.6%.
The increases in fetal serum concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone, thyroxine-binding globulin, and total and free T4 and T3 during gestation reflect increasing maturation of the pituitary, thyroid, and liver. The finding of increasing fetal serum concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone in the presence of increasing thyroid hormone concentrations suggests that the sensitivity of the fetal pituitary gland to negative feedback is limited or is counterbalanced by increasing stimulation by thyrotropin-releasing hormone from the hypothalamus.
These results support and extend the findings of previous studies on rTMS in stroke patients because five consecutive sessions of rTMS increased the magnitude and duration of the motor effects. Furthermore, this increased dose of rTMS is not associated with cognitive adverse effects and/or epileptogenic activity.
These data suggest that investigators can reliably reproduce patient disease activity through retrospective chart abstraction using PGA and SLEDAI. Assessing flare is a more difficult concept. The validity of assessing flare at a specific patient-visit is poor. Retrospective assessment of patient flare risk over a specified time period is conceptually more valid and avoids difficulties assessing timing and duration of flare. As there have been no similar published prospective analyses of validity using the SELENA flare tool, it is not clear if this problem was unique to the method of retrospective chart abstraction, the nature of non-protocol study patient visits, the tool itself or a combination of all three aspects.
After chronic dosing of S. boulardii, patients with low stool concentrations had a higher likelihood of recurrence of CDD. Stool concentrations were also lower during periods of diarrhoea. These results show the importance of characterizing the dynamics of a therapeutic microorganism in patients with disease, as kinetic studies in healthy volunteers may not give a true reflection of the disturbed microecology in the disease state.
A previously uncommon strain of C. difficile with variations in toxin genes has become more resistant to fluoroquinolones and has emerged as a cause of geographically dispersed outbreaks of C. difficile-associated disease.
The frequency of C difficile colitis remains high and seems to be associated with increasing mortality. Among patients with positive C difficile toxin assay results, immunocompromise and delayed diagnosis no longer seem to be associated with higher risk for death. All patients taking antibiotics are at risk and require early recognition and aggressive medical intervention.
Ubiquinol was significantly effective in men with unexplained oligoasthenoteratozoospermia for improving sperm density, sperm motility and sperm morphology.
Results of this study suggest the safety and efficacy of Daflon in the treatment of varicocele-associated pain. However, these results of the present study must be confirmed by randomized placebo-controlled studies by using different drug doses and durations before making any recommendation for the use of Daflon.
The data showed PTX pretreatment protected BRCA1 but not c-myc suggesting that PTX did not equally protect different cell genes. A possible explanation was that proto-oncogenes had more fragile sites. The study involved the DNA disc chip assay to assess separate PCR-amplified sense and antisense strands. The results suggested that both strands were equally affected by PTX pretreatment.
About 44,000 ears are syringed each year in the area and complications requiring specialist referral are estimated to occur in 1/1000 ears syringed. The incidence of complications could be reduced by a greater awareness of the potential hazards, increased instruction of personnel, and more careful selection of patients.
Weekly low-dose (10 000 IU) vitamin A supplementation in a region of subclinical deficiency protected underweight children from ALRI and paradoxically increased ALRI in normal children with body weight over -1 SD. Protection from severe diarrhea was consistent with previous trials. Additional research is warranted to delineate potential beneficial and detrimental interactions between nutritional status and vitamin A supplementation regarding ALRI.
Vitamin A supplements provide a low-cost intervention against morbidity in HIV-infected and undernourished children. Supplements may also have serious non-lethal adverse outcomes in well-nourished individuals. Whether these apparent detrimental effects of vitamin A are transient or long-term needs to be examined.
Treatment with high doses of vitamin A over and above standard care for infants and children with non-measles-related ALRI is not efficacious for the current episode. Additional trials among populations in which vitamin A deficiency is more prevalent and severe should be considered.
Serum vitamin A and RBP levels were low in children hospitalized with RSV infection and were lower in children admitted to the intensive care unit. Hospitalized control patients in intensive care also had lower levels than those treated on the ward. We observed no benefit from oral vitamin A supplementation for children hospitalized with RSV infection.
Overall, we found no effect of a moderate dose of vitamin A supplementation on the duration of uncomplicated pneumonia in underweight or normal-weight children aged <5 y. However, a beneficial effect was seen in children with high basal serum retinol concentrations.
This study indicates that high-dose vitamin A supplements cause modest adverse effects in children recovering from pneumonia and should not be used therapeutically in such patients unless there is clinical evidence of vitamin A deficiency or concurrent measles infection.
Vitamin A supplementation improves linear and ponderal growth in infants who are infected with HIV and malaria, respectively, and decreases the risk of stunting associated with persistent diarrhea. Supplementation could constitute a low-cost, effective intervention to decrease the burden of growth retardation in settings where infectious diseases are highly prevalent.
The results of this study demonstrate that intake of 1, 3, or 6 g of cinnamon per day reduces serum glucose, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol, and total cholesterol in people with type 2 diabetes and suggest that the inclusion of cinnamon in the diet of people with type 2 diabetes will reduce risk factors associated with diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
Unlike alpha-tocopherol, gamma-tocopherol plasma levels were decreased by a low fat diet, perhaps because gamma-tocopherol is not generally added to foods nor widely used in vitamin E supplements. The decreased dietary intakes and plasma levels of gamma-tocopherol with a low-fat diet may have implications for health risks since the biological functions of the different tocopherol isomers have been reported to be distinct.
These results indicate that total carotenoid levels in NAF can be significantly increased in the breast NAF with a high fruit-vegetable diet. A low-fat diet that was achieved with little increase in fruit and vegetable intake, however, decreased NAF carotenoid levels.
None of the forms of garlic used in this study, including raw garlic, when given at an approximate dose of a 4-g clove per day, 6 d/wk for 6 months, had statistically or clinically significant effects on LDL-C or other plasma lipid concentrations in adults with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
Modification of dietary patterns can have substantial effects on fasting levels of total serum homocysteine. These results provide additional insights into the mechanisms by which diet might influence the occurrence of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
This simple 5 a Day intervention is feasible and acceptable for use in worksites with cafeterias. There was a significant differential increase in fruit and vegetable consumption in the intervention worksites. This kind of worksite intervention can achieve important health benefits on a population basis, because of its potential to reach large numbers of people.
The worksite-plus-family intervention was more successful in increasing fruit and vegetable consumption than was the worksite intervention. Worksite interventions involving family members appear to be a promising strategy for influencing workers' dietary habits.
All three interventions increased moderate-to-vigorous physical activity but not fruit and vegetable consumption. The intervention group with provider counseling, health education, and CHW support significantly increased the number of women meeting national recommendations for fruit and vegetable consumption.
The majority of the interventions reviewed resulted in meaningful improvements in dietary factors behaviors associated with the prevention of chronic disease, particularly among individuals at elevated disease risk. The lack of similarity across studies in outcome measures, study design, analysis strategy, and intervention technique hampered our ability to draw broad conclusions about the most effective behavioral dietary interventions, but our findings offer insight into intervention components that may hold promise for future research efforts.
Although null findings may be underreported the results are consistent with a strong protective effect of fruit and vegetables for stroke and a weaker protective effect on coronary heart disease. Greater use of food-based hypotheses and analyses, would complement existing nutrient-based analyses and help guide the search for underlying causes.
Our data suggest that primary PCI is associated with a high incidence of angiographic restenosis. No correlation was found between patients' clinical characteristics and restenosis. The length and the number of implanted stents seem to be associated with a more probable restenosis at six-month angiographic evaluation. Drug-eluting stent implantation seems to be associated with a lower incidence of restenosis even in STEMI patients.
While approximately three quarters of patients receiving PCI are angina-free at 1 year, females continue to have more symptoms, as do other subgroups including patients with history of MI or previous intervention. As these symptoms are associated with self-reported activity and quality of life limitation, evaluations of PCI should include angina as a key follow-up outcome.
Warfarin is very effective for preventing ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation in clinical practice while the absolute increase in the risk of intracranial hemorrhage is small. Results of randomized trials of anticoagulation translate well into clinical care for patients with atrial fibrillation.
The number of drugs reported to interact with warfarin continues to expand. While most reports are of poor quality and present potentially misleading conclusions, the consistency of reports of interactions with azole antibiotics, macrolides, quinolones, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, omeprazole, lipid-lowering agents, amiodarone, and fluorouracil, suggests that coadministration with warfarin should be avoided or closely monitored. More systematic study of warfarin drug interactions in patients is urgently needed.
Clinical and cost outcomes are strongly dependent on the quality of anticoagulation and rates of warfarin discontinuation. Clinicians should work to improve both. Policy makers should use real-world INR control and warfarin discontinuation rates when assessing cost-effectiveness.
Use of warfarin has increased, and bleeding from warfarin use is a prevalent reaction and an important cause of mortality. Consequently, a "black box" warning about warfarin's bleeding risk was added to the US product labeling in 2006. Physicians and nurses should tell patients to immediately report signs and symptoms of bleeding. A Medication Guide, which is required to be provided with each prescription, reinforces this message.
EGb was safe and appears capable of stabilizing and, in a substantial number of cases, improving the cognitive performance and the social functioning of demented patients for 6 months to 1 year. Although modest, the changes induced by EGb were objectively measured by the ADAS-Cog and were of sufficient magnitude to be recognized by the caregivers in the GERRI.
Periconceptional multivitamin supplementation can reduce not only the rate of neural tube defects but also the rate of other major non-genetic syndromatic congenital abnormalities. Further studies are needed to differentiate the chance effect and vitamin dependent effect.
These results indicate that staple foods fortified with folate are consumed by almost 80% of women in the population. Therefore, mandatory fortification of staple foods may reach most women, providing improved opportunity for the prevention of neural tube defects in Australia.
Recommendations alone remain an ineffective approach in translating the known protective effect of folic acid in population-wide decline in NTD rates. Fortification appears to be effective in reducing NTDs. The effect on other birth defects remains unclear.
Periconceptional multivitamin supplementation containing folic acid can prevent the occurrence of NTDs with the beneficial effect dependent on the frequency and timing of the supplementation. Our study suggests that multivitamin supplement containing folic acid taken from a time point of 2 months before conception and continuing until completion of the second month after conception and taken more than five times per week can significantly reduce the risks of NTDs.
None of the combinations of antenatal micronutrient supplements tested improved symptoms of neonatal morbidity in the first 10 days of life or at 6 weeks of age. Further research is needed to elucidate the association and mechanism of increased risk of birth asphyxia following maternal multiple micronutrient supplementation.
The magnitude of the risk reduction in our study is comparable to those of other recent studies; our study does not support the contention that only large dosages of folic acid are needed to prevent orofacial clefts. More studies are needed to test the effects of multivitamins and varying dosages of folic acid on the recurrence and/or occurrence of orofacial clefts to provide information needed to determine possible prevention strategies. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The community appears no more concerned about the fortification of bread with folate than they are about other existing fortification programs in Australia, and appear more likely to support rather than oppose the fortification of foods with folate, particularly if they are informed of the benefits of such a program.
MM supplementation during pregnancy did not improve zinc or vitamin A status compared to Fe only. There is some indication that folate status may have improved with MM supplementation despite low prevalence of deficiency. While lack of response in serum retinol may be explained by generally adequate status, the lack of impact on zinc status requires further exploration.
There was almost a tripling in the risk for NTD in the presence of low maternal B(12) status, measured by holoTC. The benefits of adding synthetic B(12) to current recommendations for periconceptional folic acid tablet supplements or folic-acid-fortified foods need to be considered. It remains to be determined what fraction of NTD cases in a universally folate-fortified environment might be prevented by higher periconceptional intake of B(12).
The national folic acid campaign has not reached many women in the rural Mississippi Delta. A new mode of folic acid education is needed that is focused on low-income and young women and women not planning pregnancies. In the Delta and similar geographic regions, health care providers, black church leaders, and youth group leaders could be valuable advocates for folic acid.
Results from this ecological study fail to demonstrate substantial declines in newborn hospitalizations beyond those anticipated from a reduction in neural tube defects. The society-wide impact of the fortification program on birth defects and other health conditions should continue to be monitored.
Women had increased concerns having seen folate promotional material and after being interviewed about it. These results are consistent with the proposition that an initial emotional response to sensitive health information is part of an adaptive response appropriate to the process of health-related behaviour change.
The provision of printed educational material can increase folate awareness among women of child-bearing age. A comprehensive, long-term and ongoing health promotion campaign including such material, together with initiatives by relevant health service providers and the food industry, could best address the current low levels of folate awareness among women of child-bearing age.
Randomized trials or well-designed prospective cohort studies are needed to assess the effects of folic acid on various pregnancy outcomes. To enable an examination of the association between folic acid and rare outcomes, such as a specific category of birth defects and fetal and neonatal deaths, it is necessary to recruit a large number of pregnant women to participate in such studies.
NTDs remain an important cause of perinatal mortality and infantile paralysis worldwide. Mandatory fortification of flour with folic acid has proved to be one of the most successful public health interventions in reducing the prevalence of NTD-affected pregnancies. Most developing countries have few, if any, common sources of folic acid, unlike many developed countries, which have folic acid available from ready-to-eat cereals and supplements. Expanding the number of developed and developing countries with folic acid flour fortification has tremendous potential to safely eliminate most folic acid-preventable NTDs.
Recommendations alone did not seem to influence trends in neural tube defects up to six years after the confirmation of the effectiveness of folic acid in clinical trials. New cases of neural tube defects preventable by folic acid continue to accumulate. A reasonable strategy would be to quickly integrate food fortification with fuller implementation of recommendations on supplements.
The good correspondence between the sum of folate species determined by LC-MS/MS and TFOL determined by MA makes these 2 assays interchangeable. The BR produces much lower results, on average, probably because of 5CH(3)THF underrecovery. The conversion equations provided could be used for future NHANES time trend analyses.
The association between preconceptional folate use and twin pregnancies was strongly confounded by IVF. After accounting for IVF pregnancies and underreporting, we found no evidence for an association between preconceptional folate supplements and twinning.
These data do not indicate a therapeutic benefit from dietary supplementation with isoflavones in women experiencing menopausal symptoms, but do indicate that the apparent placebo effect in many studies of menopausal symptoms may be attributable to dietary sources of isoflavones. The study also demonstrates that 3 months of isoflavone supplementation did not cause adverse events or endometrial changes.
Daily intake of a hop extract, standardized on 8-PN as a potent phytoestrogen, exerted favorable effects on vasomotor symptoms and other menopausal discomforts. Hop-derived prenylated flavonoids may provide an attractive addition to the alternative treatments available for relief of hot flushes and other menopausal discomforts.
Powdered energy drinks are not commonly consumed in Australia and were poorly tolerated in this study. The high withdrawal rate and reporting of side-effects suggests that other methods of isoflavone delivery may be more appropriate in this culture, in future trials. At the dose used no benefit was seen in relief from menopausal symptoms, although for the sample size, the study could only have been expected to detect major differences between the groups.
Phytoestrogens did not cause any sensitive and worrisome stimulation of the endometrial mucosa. Insomnia was more frequent in the group treated pharmacologically in the 24 months of the study, whereas hot flushes, night sweats, vaginal dryness and dyspareunia persisted or increased as compared to the beginning of the study in the group treated with a placebo, but this did not occur for the group treated with phytoestrogens.
In this study, neither raloxifene nor soy enhanced endothelial function in postmenopausal women. However, the cohort had relatively normal endothelial function at baseline. Further study is required to determine if particular subgroups of postmenopausal women derive vascular benefit from the use of selective estrogen receptor modulators or soy phytoestrogens.
Administration of Soyfem in the dosage 52 to 104 mg/24 hours (2 times daily 1 or 2 tablets) is a safe and effective therapy in the postmenopausal women with moderate and medium-severe climacteric syndrome evaluated according to the Kupperman index. Administration of Soyfem is connected with a good compliance and correlated with well-being in the investigated women allowing a long-term administration.
Pueraria mirifica, containing phytoestrogens, relatively alleviated the climacteric symptoms in perimenopausal women. The transient negative profiles occurred in a small number of subjects that included anemia, and liver profiles. While there was a slight decrease in lipoproteins and an increase in hormonal profiles, Pueraria mirifica demonstrates great promise in the treatment of climacteric symptoms among perimenopausal women. However, optimal doses should be clinically assessed, to meet appropriate individual responses.
This randomized trial suggests that continuous combined estrogen plus progestin therapy may increase the risk of ovarian cancer while producing endometrial cancer rates similar to placebo. The increased burden of endometrial biopsies required to assess vaginal bleeding further limits the acceptability of this regimen. These data provide additional support for caution in the use of continuous combined hormones.
Compliance with HRT can be high if adequate information is given and follow-ups are made. The main reason for poor compliance was negative side-effects, most likely progestin-related. The results of this study suggest that the future challenge will be to minimize negative side-effects of HRT.
Among the risk factors assessed, vasomotor symptoms were most strongly associated with menopausal status. After adjustment for covariates, symptoms were reported most often in all racial/ethnic groups in late perimenopause and nearly as often in postmenopause.
The release of the HERS data was temporally associated with a modest decline in the use of hormone therapy. In contrast, the release of the principal findings from the WHI was associated with a more substantial decline in use by postmenopausal women. The reason for the differences in decline may relate to the fact that the WHI results were widely publicized or were more applicable to most postmenopausal women because the WHI study was performed in healthy women.
There is some evidence for the efficacy of soy preparations for perimenopausal symptoms. However, the heterogeneity of the studies performed to date means it is difficult to make a definitive statement. Adverse event data from the trials suggest that there are no serious safety concerns with soy products in short-term use.
Medical pluralism is common among women and should be accepted as a cultural norm. Although disclosure rates of CAM use to conventional providers were higher than in previous population-based studies, disclosure should be increased, especially for women who are pregnant and those with heart disease and cancer. The health risks and benefits of polypharmacy should be addressed at multiple levels of the public health system.
Although interindividual variation in isoflavone metabolism was high, intraindividual variation was low. Only concentrations of O-DMA in plasma and urine appeared to be influenced by sex. Chronic soy consumption does not appear to induce many significant changes to the gut metabolism of isoflavones other than higher beta-glucosidase activity.
Poorer glycemic control increases the risk of neuropathy and is amenable to intervention. Height and age directly increase risk of neuropathy and may help identify patients at risk. A proportion of neuropathy in diabetic veterans is probably due to or worsened by alcohol ingestion. Neuropathy was less common in current smokers than subjects not currently smoking.
Intravenous racemic ALA, a potent antioxidant, rapidly and to a significant and meaningful degree, improved such positive neuropathic sensory symptoms as pain and several other neuropathic end points. This improvement of symptoms was attributed to improved nerve pathophysiology, not to increased nerve fiber degeneration. Because of its safety profile and its effect on positive neuropathic sensory symptoms and other neuropathic end points, this drug appears to be a useful ancillary treatment for the symptoms of diabetic polyneuropathy.
Neuropathy is a common complication of diabetes and, in this study, was present in 32.3% of all patients. An increased awareness of the high prevalence of neuropathy can lead to early therapeutic intervention and possible prevention of later neuropathic complications, such as infection and foot ulcers.
The severity of peripheral DSP expressed by morphological criteria was significantly related to glycemic control in type 1 and type 2 diabetic patients. Inconsistent with previously published electrophysiological data demonstrating a correlation between height and conduction velocity, increasing height is not associated with morphological severity. Based on the results of the present study, it might be hypothesized that improving glycemic control will lessen severity of DSP in terms of FD loss in subjects with diabetes.
Compared with SFA intake, n-6 PUFAs reduce liver fat and modestly improve metabolic status, without weight loss. A high n-6 PUFA intake does not cause any signs of inflammation or oxidative stress. Downregulation of PCSK9 could be a novel mechanism behind the cholesterol-lowering effects of PUFAs. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
In healthy individuals a moderate supplementation of fish oil does not affect insulin sensitivity, insulin secretion, beta-cell function or glucose tolerance. The same is true even when the habitual dietary intake of n-6 and n-3 fatty acids is taken into account.
Young adults are very responsive to dietary-induced changes in plasma cholesterol even when an isocaloric replacement of saturated fat with n-6 polyunsaturated or monounsaturated fat is not achieved. Replacing saturated fat with either n-6 polyunsaturated or monounsaturated fat is equally efficacious at reducing the total to high density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio.
. These results suggest that the individually matched low-caloric diet with decreased saturated fats intake, increased intake of PUFA n-3 and dietary fibers are crucial in metabolic syndrome therapy and efficiently decrease total cardiovascular risk in these patients.
Dietary supplementation with ALA for 3 months decreases significantly CRP, SAA and IL-6 levels in dyslipidaemic patients. This anti-inflammatory effect may provide a possible additional mechanism for the beneficial effect of plant n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in primary and secondary prevention of coronary artery disease.
Dietary supplementation with ALA for 12 weeks significantly decreases sVCAM-1 levels in dyslipidaemic patients. This effect presents a potential mechanism for the beneficial effect of plant n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the prevention of coronary artery disease. In addition, dietary supplementation with LA significantly decreases sVCAM-1 levels, an effect which requires further investigation.
t10c12 CLA supplementation increases oxidative stress and inflammatory biomarkers in obese men. The oxidative stress seems closely related to induced insulin resistance, suggesting a link between the fatty acid-induced lipid peroxidation seen in the present study and insulin resistance. These unfavorable effects of t10c12 CLA might be of clinical importance with regard to cardiovascular disease, in consideration of the widespread use of dietary supplements containing this fatty acid.
These results reveal important isomer-specific metabolic actions of CLA in abdominally obese humans. A CLA-induced insulin resistance has previously been described only in lipodystrophic mice. Considering the use of CLA-supplements among obese individuals, it is important to clarify the clinical consequences of these results, but they also provide physiological insights into the role of specific dietary fatty acids as modulators of insulin resistance in humans.
Increased intakes of dietary ALA elicit antiinflammatory effects by inhibiting IL-6, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha production in cultured PBMCs. Changes in PBMC ALA and eicosapentaenoic acid (derived from dietary ALA) are associated with beneficial changes in TNF-alpha release. Thus, the cardioprotective effects of ALA are mediated in part by a reduction in the production of inflammatory cytokines.
In prospective observational studies, dietary LA intake is inversely associated with CHD risk in a dose-response manner. These data provide support for current recommendations to replace saturated fat with polyunsaturated fat for primary prevention of CHD.
Dietary polyunsaturated and more specifically linoleic fatty acid intake may have a substantial cardioprotective benefit that is also reflected in overall mortality. Dietary fat quality seems more important than fat quantity in the reduction of cardiovascular mortality in men.
The effects of dietary fats on total:HDL cholesterol may differ markedly from their effects on LDL. The effects of fats on these risk markers should not in themselves be considered to reflect changes in risk but should be confirmed by prospective observational studies or clinical trials. By that standard, risk is reduced most effectively when trans fatty acids and saturated fatty acids are replaced with cis unsaturated fatty acids. The effects of carbohydrates and of lauric acid-rich fats on CAD risk remain uncertain.
These findings provide evidence that consuming PUFA in place of SFA reduces CHD events in RCTs. This suggests that rather than trying to lower PUFA consumption, a shift toward greater population PUFA consumption in place of SFA would significantly reduce rates of CHD. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.
Advice to substitute polyunsaturated fats for saturated fats is a key component of worldwide dietary guidelines for coronary heart disease risk reduction. However, clinical benefits of the most abundant polyunsaturated fatty acid, omega 6 linoleic acid, have not been established. In this cohort, substituting dietary linoleic acid in place of saturated fats increased the rates of death from all causes, coronary heart disease, and cardiovascular disease. An updated meta-analysis of linoleic acid intervention trials showed no evidence of cardiovascular benefit. These findings could have important implications for worldwide dietary advice to substitute omega 6 linoleic acid, or polyunsaturated fats in general, for saturated fats.
A meta-analysis of prospective epidemiologic studies showed that there is no significant evidence for concluding that dietary saturated fat is associated with an increased risk of CHD or CVD. More data are needed to elucidate whether CVD risks are likely to be influenced by the specific nutrients used to replace saturated fat.
The mean additive anti-ischemic effect shown by combination therapy with metoprolol and nifedipine in patients with stable angina pectoris is not the result of an additive effect in individual patients. Rather, it may be attributed to the recruitment by the second drug of patients not responding to monotherapy.
According to our data, when the use of a catheter is expected to be required for < or = 36 h, a short line can be used. If a longer duration is expected, a longer line is warranted. Ours is the first study in which the relationship between blood hemoglobin levels and phlebitis has been reported. Because the use of intravascular devices is increasingly common, a more complete knowledge of the factors that influence their acceptance has become essential.
The patient group showed a subjective improvement, which supports clinical experience of treating acute ankle injuries. There is some evidence that on average the patient group appeared to be less stable than controls in all balance tests, although the difference did not reach statistical significance, even on the uninjured leg. There is a need to carry out further studies to confirm the results found in this pilot study and to investigate the hypotheses generated. It would be useful to evaluate a simple test that could be used clinically to monitor progress after ankle injury, and also to identify athletes with decreased functional stability, who may be more at risk of sustaining ankle injury.
Implementation of the Ottawa ankle rules led to a decrease in use of ankle radiography, waiting times, and costs without patient dissatisfaction or missed fractures. Future studies should address the generalizability of these decision rules in a variety of hospital settings.
Standardized, individually tailored acupuncture treatment was associated with significantly greater decrease in the severity, but not the frequency, of hot flashes, in symptomatic postmenopausal women when compared to placebo acupuncture of equal duration. Future, larger scale, studies are needed.
This study does not show that EA is better than superficial needle insertion for the amelioration of general psychological distress and experience of climacteric symptoms in women with vasomotor symptoms after menopause. However, the more pronounced effect on mood suggests that EA might have additional effects compared with superficial needle insertion.
Vitamin A supplementation of HIV-infected pregnant women may prevent the deterioration in gut integrity in the subgroup of their infants who themselves become infected. Improving vitamin A status of HIV-infected infants may decrease their gastrointestinal morbidity.
The data suggest that the reduction in the levels of anti-VSACSA antibodies to the known placental malaria isolate may reflect reduced intensity or duration of placental parasitaemia in women receiving vitamin A supplementation. These observations are of potential public health significance and deserve further investigation.
Vitamin A and multivitamins did not affect the risk of vertical transmission of HIV in utero nor during the intrapartum and early breastfeeding periods. Multivitamins resulted in a significant improvement in birth weight of babies who were HIV-negative at birth but had no effect among those who were HIV-positive. The effect of vitamin supplements on HIV transmission through breastfeeding and on clinical progression of HIV disease is yet to be ascertained.
Multivitamin supplements have been previously shown to reduce HIV disease progression among HIV-infected women, and consistent with that, these supplements protected against development of symptomatic malaria. The clinical significance of increased risk of malaria parasitemia among supplemented women deserves further research, however. Preventive measures for malaria are warranted as part of an integrated approach to the care of HIV-infected individuals exposed to malaria.
VA/BC supplementation in lactating women increases the HIV load in breast milk. This finding contributes to explaining the adverse effect of VA/BC on mother-to-child transmission. β-Carotene appears to have an effect on breast-milk viral load, independent of preformed vitamin A. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Sustained supplementation of HIV-infected breastfeeding mothers with MV could be a safe and effective intervention to improve vitamin E concentrations in breast milk. VA+BC supplementation increases concentrations of breast milk retinol but it is not recommended in HIV-infected mothers due to the elevated risk of vertical transmission.
Vitamin A supplementation programmes to reduce anaemia should not be implemented in similar antenatal populations in rural sub-Saharan Africa unless evidence emerges of positive benefit on substantive clinical outcomes. Introducing public health interventions of unknown benefit and with unclear biological mechanisms can divert scarce resources from clinical and social interventions more likely to impact maternal mortality.
In a chronically undernourished population, maternal repletion with vitamin A at recommended dietary levels before, during, and after pregnancy improved lung function in offspring. This public health benefit was apparent in the preadolescent years.
Cigarette smoking during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of maternal and infant mortality in rural Nepal. beta-Carotene and to some extent vitamin A may reduce the risk of pregnancy-related mortality, but not infant mortality, among both smokers and nonsmokers.
During pregnancy, pupillary dark adaptation was strongly associated with serum retinol concentration and improved significantly in response to vitamin A supplementation. This noninvasive testing technique is a valid indicator of population vitamin A status in women of reproductive age.
Multiple births are relatively common occurrences in rural Nepal, and carry a much higher mortality risk for the infants than for singletons. Vitamin A or beta-carotene supplementation appeared to increase the rate of twinning, or improve the survival of twins in utero, but did not increase twin survival after birth.
In this rural South Asian population with a high burden of LBW and preterm birth but modest levels of maternal vitamin A deficiency, antenatal vitamin A or β-carotene supplementation did not benefit these birth outcomes. Other nutritional and nonnutritional interventions should be examined to reduce risks of these adverse outcomes in rural South Asia. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Weekly vitamin A supplementation reduced the risk of maternal BV in this rural Bangladeshi population. Enhancement of vitamin A status before and during pregnancy may reduce the risk of BV in areas with vitamin A deficiency. This trial is registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Targeted vitamin A supplementation of HIV-positive children prolongs their survival. However, postpartum maternal and neonatal vitamin A supplementation may hasten progression to death in breast-fed children who are PCR negative at 6 weeks. These findings raise concern about universal maternal or neonatal vitamin A supplementation in HIV-endemic areas.
UNIMMAP supplementation had sex-specific effects on cord IGF-I and leptin concentrations that were of unclear clinical significance. Other pathways may have been involved in the action of UNIMMAP on fetal growth. The specific hormonal pattern in primiparae could be related to constrained fetal growth. Confirmatory studies are warranted. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
This study found no association between periconceptional vitamin A exposure at doses >8000 IU or >10,000 IU per day and malformations in general, cranial neural crest defects, or neural tube defects. If vitamin A is a teratogen, the minimum teratogenic dose appears to be well above the level consumed by most women during organogenesis.
The data suggest that 1 in 10 women in the Nordic countries experience genital warts before the age of 45 years, with an increasing occurrence in younger birth cohorts. These data are important for developing and evaluating strategies (e.g., human papillomavirus [HPV] vaccination) to control and prevent HPV infection and disease in the population.
The results indicate that Polyphenon E ointment is an efficacious and safe patient-applied topical treatment for external genital and perianal warts. Its use in intra-anal, intravaginal and cervical condylomas and other intraepithelial lesions warrants further clinical investigation.
Tripterygium wilfordii Hook. f. may be an effective therapeutic agent for leiomyomas with fewer side effects. Tripterygium wilfordii Hook. f. treatment showed a reversibly inhibitory effect on the ovary. It may be one of the mechanisms of Tripterygium wilfordii Hook. f. in decreasing leiomyoma volume.
Uterine artery embolization is a valuable endovascular method for the treatment of fibroids, resulting in marked reduction in fibroid size and disappearance of intrafibroid vessels without reduction in uterine vascularization which is well depicted by sonography.
There was no significant difference between omega-3 fatty acids and placebo in this study in which all participants received supportive psychotherapy. The manualized supportive psychotherapy warrants further study. The low intake of dietary omega-3 fatty acids among participants is of concern, in consideration of the widely established health advantages in utero and in infants.
Omega-3 PUFAs may have therapeutic benefits in depression during pregnancy. In regard to the safety issue and psychotherapeutic effect, as well as health promotion to mothers and their newborns, it is worthy to conduct replication studies in a larger sample with a broad regimen of omega-3 PUFAs in pregnant women with depression.
Emotional complaints are very common in pregnancy and medication is always a risk. In this study, acupuncture seems to be an efficacious means of reducing symptoms and improving the quality of life of women with emotional complaints during pregnancy. Large randomised studies are recommended to confirm these results.
Women in both the study and control groups were more depressed antenatally than postnatally. The finding that the education intervention made no difference challenges the two strongly held tenets of health education in childbearing women-that depression can be reduced through education and that antenatal education interventions can endure into the postnatal period.
This is formally a negative study, suggesting that there is no benefit for omega-3 fatty acids over placebo in treating PND. The reason could be that the study was underpowered due to recruitment difficulties and therefore we suggest that it may be unwise to interpret this result as conclusive. Omega-3 is a natural product that is a safe and well-tolerated treatment. Further research is therefore needed in this area to establish whether omega-3 fatty acids are an effective treatment for PND.
Available data suggest that simply increasing the amount of circulating high density lipoprotein cholesterol does not reduce the risk of coronary heart disease events, coronary heart disease deaths, or total deaths. The results support reduction in low density lipoprotein cholesterol as the primary goal for lipid modifying interventions.
Calcium supplementation may lead to a small reduction in systolic but not diastolic blood pressure. The results do not exclude a larger, important effect of calcium on blood pressure in subpopulations. In particular, further studies should address the hypothesis that inadequate calcium intake is associated with increased blood pressure that can be corrected with calcium supplementation.
In typical British diets replacing 60% of saturated fats by other fats and avoiding 60% of dietary cholesterol would reduce blood total cholesterol by about 0.8 mmol/l (that is, by 10-15%), with four fifths of this reduction being in low density lipoprotein cholesterol.
Among cholesterol-lowering treatments, statins are the most effective at decreasing the risk of total stroke, but their benefit is proportional to the percent reduction of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. No lipid-lowering intervention was associated with a reduction of fatal stroke.
Our findings suggested that replacing fat with carbohydrate could deteriorate insulin resistance while the adverse effect on triglycerides from the LFHC diet could be avoided by restricting energy intake to a degree sufficient for the attainment of weight reduction.
The results from the cohort studies, international comparisons, and clinical trials are remarkably consistent. The cohort studies, based on half a million men and 18,000 ischaemic heart disease events, estimate that a long term reduction in serum cholesterol concentration of 0.6 mmol/l (10%), which can be achieved by moderate dietary change, lowers the risk of ischaemic heart disease by 50% at age 40, falling to 20% at age 70. The randomised trials, based on 45,000 men and 4000 ischaemic heart disease events show that the full effect of the reduction in risk is achieved by five years.
Results from observational studies, where alcohol consumption can be linked directly to an individual's risk of coronary heart disease, provide strong evidence that all alcoholic drinks are linked with lower risk. Thus, a substantial portion of the benefit is from alcohol rather than other components of each type of drink.
Because of severe attenuation, the FFQ cannot be recommended as an instrument for evaluating relations between absolute intake of energy or protein and disease. Although this attenuation is lessened in analyses of energy-adjusted protein, it remains substantial for both FFQ and multiple 24HR. The utility of either of these instruments for detecting important but moderate relative risks (between 1.5 and 2.0), even for energy-adjusted dietary factors, is questionable.
Diets rich in carbohydrate may be associated with slightly higher blood pressure than diets rich in cis-monounsaturated fat. However, the magnitude of the difference may not justify making recommendations to alter the carbohydrate and cis-monounsaturated fat content of the diet to manage blood pressure.
There is no evidence from primary prevention trials that cholesterol lowering affects total mortality in healthy women, although the available data are limited. Limited evidence suggests that treatment of hypercholesterolemia in women with coronary disease may decrease CHD mortality. Future research should address the role of dietary and other nondrug treatment of hypercholesterolemia in women at high risk for CHD.
Dietary cholesterol raises the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol and, therefore, adversely affects the cholesterol profile. The advice to limit cholesterol intake by reducing consumption of eggs and other cholesterol-rich foods may therefore still be valid.
Treatment with pravastatin reduced the development of carotid atherosclerosis among patients with coronary heart disease and a wide range of pretreatment cholesterol levels. Treatment with this agent prevented any detectable increase in carotid wall thickening over 4 years of follow-up.
Compared with a low-fat diet, a low-carbohydrate diet program had better participant retention and greater weight loss. During active weight loss, serum triglyceride levels decreased more and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level increased more with the low-carbohydrate diet than with the low-fat diet.
The mean serum total cholesterol concentration of the adult US population in 1999 to 2000 has changed little since 1988 to 1994. The low percentage of adults with controlled blood cholesterol concentration suggests the need for a renewed commitment to the prevention, treatment, and control of hypercholesterolemia.
Statins and n-3 fatty acids are the most favorable lipid-lowering interventions with reduced risks of overall and cardiac mortality. Any potential reduction in cardiac mortality from fibrates is offset by an increased risk of death from noncardiovascular causes.
Concomitant use of intravenous iron is better than oral iron in CRF patients treated with rHuEPO. The intravenous route of iron administration may be a preferred route along with rHuEPO therapy, more so in the Indian context where prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia is fairly high.
These CKD patients had increases in both hemoglobin and ferritin following IV iron therapy, whereas those treated with oral iron had increases in hemoglobin without increases in iron stores. Iron sucrose, given weekly as 200 mg IV push over 5 min is an effective and safe anemia treatment in this population.
In pre-dialysis patients, the efficacy of monthly 300 mg iron sucrose given intravenously is not superior with regard to haemoglobin response and rHuEpo dose as compared with a daily oral dose of 600 mg of ferrous sulphate or equivalent. Where intravenous iron is preferred, lower doses may help to reduce the incidence of allergic or "free iron" reactions, especially in patients with low body mass.
Two-monthly i.v. iron infusions represent a practical alternative to oral iron and can be safely administered to PD patients in an outpatient setting. Compared with daily oral therapy, 2-monthly i.v. iron supplementation in PD patients was better tolerated and resulted in superior haemoglobin levels and body iron stores.
A modified Mediterranean-type diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids efficiently potentiated the cholesterol-lowering effect of simvastatin, counteracted the fasting insulin-elevating effect of simvastatin, and, unlike simvastatin, did not decrease serum levels of beta-carotene and ubiquinol-10.
Two dietary interventions that successfully lowered serum cholesterol levels had no adverse effect on mood. There was some evidence for a relative impairment in cognitive function in the treated groups in one of four cognitive tests, but additional studies will be required to determine the relevance of this finding.
Myocardial infarction patients can respond positively to simple dietary advice, and this can be expected to lead to a substantial reduction in the risk of early death. Regardless of any drug treatment prescribed, clinicians should routinely advise patients with myocardial infarction to increase their frequency of consumption of Mediterranean foods.
The association between the Mediterranean diet and plasma oxidative stress is robust and is not confounded by genetic or shared environmental factors. Decreased oxidative stress is a plausible mechanism linking the Mediterranean diet to reduced cardiovascular disease risk.
These findings show evidence of a significant inverse association between light-to-moderate wine consumption and vascular risk. A similar, although smaller association was also apparent in beer consumption studies. The latter finding, however, is difficult to interpret because no meaningful relationship could be found between different amounts of beer intake and vascular risk.
Low levels of alcohol intake (1-2 drinks per day for women and 2-4 drinks per day for men) are inversely associated with total mortality in both men and women. Our findings, while confirming the hazards of excess drinking, indicate potential windows of alcohol intake that may confer a net beneficial effect of moderate drinking, at least in terms of survival.
Adherence to the Mediterranean diet is inversely associated with arterial blood pressure, even though a beneficial component of the Mediterranean diet score-cereal intake-is positively associated with arterial blood pressure. Olive oil intake, per se, is inversely associated with both systolic and diastolic blood pressure.
Greater adherence to a Mediterranean diet is associated with a significant improvement in health status, as seen by a significant reduction in overall mortality (9%), mortality from cardiovascular diseases (9%), incidence of or mortality from cancer (6%), and incidence of Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease (13%). These results seem to be clinically relevant for public health, in particular for encouraging a Mediterranean-like dietary pattern for primary prevention of major chronic diseases.
Euthyroid pregnant women who are positive for TPOAb develop impaired thyroid function, which is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage and premature deliveries. Substitutive treatment with LT(4) is able to lower the chance of miscarriage and premature delivery.
Up to the end of the second trimester, iodine treatment protects the fetal brain from the effects of iodine deficiency. Treatment later in pregnancy or after delivery may improve brain growth and developmental achievement slightly, but it does not improve neurologic status.
Pramipexole is the most potent therapeutic agent ever tested for RLS. Measures of both sensory and motor functions returned to normal values after treatment. Moreover, these results further support the hypothesis that D3 receptors play a major role in the physiopathology of this condition.
We investigated the effect of bright light and exercise on depressive symptoms. Problems with sleep, especially initial insomnia, may predict a good response to treatment using combined light and exercise. Bright light exposure and physical exercise, even in combination, seem to be well tolerated and effective on depressive symptoms.
Supervised physical exercise combined with exposure to bright light appears to be an effective intervention for improving mood and certain aspects of the health-related quality of life in wintertime. This effect appears unrelated to the history of season-dependent symptoms, being noticeable among healthy individuals.
This conceptual framework links the early natural history of disorders with the search for syndromes. Knowledge of precursor prevalence and attributable risk, combined with other host characteristics and environmental risk factors, can be used in screening and prevention.
Findings suggest that sample members with subthreshold depression are a group with elevated risks of later depression and suicidal behaviors. Current diagnostic procedures, which classify people with subthreshold depression into complex discrete groups, might obscure the fact that depressive symptoms are dimensional and range from none to severe.
If the public's mental health literacy is not improved, this may hinder public acceptance of evidence-based mental health care. Also, many people with common mental disorders may be denied effective self-help and may not receive appropriate support from others in the community.
Given that antidepressant medication is not recommended as a first line treatment for children and adolescents with mild to moderate depression, and that the effects of psychological treatments are modest, there is a pressing need to extend the range of treatments available for this age group.
The findings suggest a need to improve knowledge of appropriate treatment options and to give more attention to the evaluation of interventions that are widely accepted by young people but underresearched. The findings also suggest ways in which interventions can be labelled to make them more acceptable to this age group.
Significantly more people with subsyndromal depressive symptoms or major depression reported impairment in eight of 10 functional domains than did subjects with no disorder. The high 1-year prevalence of subsyndromal depressive symptoms, combined with the associated functional impairment, emphasizes the clinical and public health importance and need for additional investigations into these symptoms.
None of the CAM studies show evidence of efficacy in depression according to the hierarchy of evidence. The RCT model and the principles underlying many types of CAM are dissonant, making its application in the evaluation of those types of CAM difficult. The hierarchy of evidence we used has limited utility in grading trials of CAM.
Intralesional immunotherapy using injection of Candida, mumps, or Trichophyton skin test antigens is an effective treatment for warts, as indicated by significantly higher response rates and distant response rates in subjects receiving antigen. Viral type and major histocompatibility complex antigens did not seem to influence treatment response. Response is accompanied by proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to human papillomavirus antigens, suggesting that a human papillomavirus-directed cell-mediated immune response plays a role in wart resolution.
Intralesional injection of mumps or Candida antigens into warts of immune individuals represents effective treatment. Observation of clearing of anatomically distinct and distant warts suggests acquisition of human papillomavirus-directed immunity in some patients. We conclude that this novel approach to immunotherapy may serve as first-line treatment in immune individuals with multiple or large warts and as second-line treatment in immune patients for whom cryotherapy fails.
Statements and methods of alternative medicine--as far as they concern observable clinical phenomena--can be tested by scientific methods. When such tests yield negative results, as in the studies presented herein the particular method or statement should be abandoned. Otherwise one would run the risk of supporting superstition and quackery.
These findings suggest that intradermal bleomycin injection is either directly or indirectly cytotoxic to keratinocytes and eccrine epithelium. Expression and upregulation of activation antigens and cell adhesion molecules suggest that a cellular immune system response and proinflammatory cytokine secretion occur after intralesional bleomycin injection into normal human skin. Histopathologic findings at some injection sites resemble neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis.
Impairment of the intestinal mucosal barrier appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis. The study suggests that probiotic supplementation may stabilize the intestinal barrier function and decrease gastrointestinal symptoms in children with atopic dermatitis.
A gastrointestinal disorder is common in children with eczema, especially with diffuse distribution. This may be responsible for substantial symptoms and may play a part in the pathogenesis of the disease and in the failure to thrive with which it is sometimes associated.
This study has allowed to optimize clinical scoring using the SCORAD system. A proposal has been made to grade the severity of atopic dermatitis according to objective criteria in three groups for inclusion in clinical trials. The SCORAD index remains the major criterion for follow-up in trials.
The results suggest that consumption of L. casei Shirota-fermented milk is able to modulate the composition and metabolic activity of the intestinal flora and indicate that L. casei Shirota-fermented milk does not influence the immune system of healthy immunocompetent males.
No association was found between asthma or exercise-induced bronchospasm and dietary salt intake. Bronchial hyperresponsiveness to methacholine did, however, appear to increase with greater salt intake, but the relevance of this association to asthma is unclear.
The perceived stress of ambulatory surgery in geriatric patients is associated with a clinical hypertensive response that is ameliorated by self-selected perioperative music, which also decreases perceived stress and increases patients' sense of personal control and well-being.
Although none of the three interventions was overwhelmingly superior, the overall response by all intervention groups demonstrated a generalized relaxation response. It is also important to note that there was reduced anxiety and improved mood within all three groups.
Elderly patients undergoing cataract surgery under retrobulbar block were more satisfied with their experience if they heard relaxing music, rather than relaxing suggestions or white noise or OR noise. The type of auditory stimuli to which the patients were exposed did not influence the level of anxiety.
Distraction therapy with nature sights and sounds significantly reduces pain in patients undergoing FB. Although the precise mechanism of this beneficial effect requires further investigation, clinicians should consider this nonintrusive strategy in addition to standard analgesic medications in patients undergoing painful, invasive procedures.
These results differ from those of similar studies but may be related to the high probability of a type II error. Further investigation with longer intervention sessions and larger sample sizes is indicated. Similar studies should incorporate power analysis when reporting their results.
Use of intraoperative music in awake patients decreases patient-controlled sedative and analgesic requirements. It should be noted, however, that patients in the no-music group did not use a headset during operation. Thus, the decrease in sedative and analgesic requirements could be caused by elimination of ambient operating room noise and not by the effects of music.
Visual distraction alone did not decrease the dose of sedative medication required for colonoscopy. When audio distraction was added, both the dose of sedative medication required and the pain score decreased significantly. Both visual and audiovisual distraction might improve patients' acceptance of colonoscopy.
Our findings suggest that the application of music reduces anxiety during bronchoscopic examination as physiological indicators of anxiety, the mean heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, were significantly lower in the music group.
Music has little influence on patients' experience of gastrointestinal endoscopy. Nevertheless, the majority of patients felt music to be helpful and expressed a preference for music during any future examination. This positive attitude to music of patients is in contrast with the assessment of some endoscopists and nurses.
Our results show that brief, non-preferred music exposure at the time of chemotherapy administration does not improve quality of life in patients with early breast cancer. Nonetheless, there is still a possibility that a subgroup will benefit from this approach as suggested by the interaction of the music effect with patient age.
ACE in a community hospital improved the process of care and patient and provider satisfaction without increasing hospital length of stay or costs. A lower frequency of the composite outcome ADL decline or nursing home placement may indicate potentially beneficial effects on patient outcomes.
Reducing the use of bedrails did not alter patient fall rates significantly, but it was associated with a reduction in serious injuries. Unless it can be shown that bedrails are beneficial, their continued use in older patients must be seriously questioned.
Data in 5 key areas (flow of patients and hospital capacity, patients' dissatisfaction, sentinel events, mean length of stay, and allocation of nursing productivity) appear to be sufficient to test the business case for future investment in partial or complete replication of this model with appropriate populations of patients.
Daily additional case costs amounted to 96% of social security payments. Blocked beds in multibed rooms accounted for more than 80% of these excess costs. Isolation has been scientifically validated and is required by law in Germany. Building an adequate number of single-bed rooms should help prevent spread and would greatly lower the added costs of infection.
Although the small sample size limits generalizability. results provide converging preliminary evidence that virtual reality can function as a strong nonpharmacological pain reduction technique for burn patients during physical therapy. Results suggest that virtual reality does not diminish in analgesic effectiveness with three (and possibly more) uses. Virtual reality may also have analgesic potential for other painful procedures or pain populations. Practical implications are discussed.
The positive transition to single room maternity care by obstetrical nurses was demonstrated by their improved overall satisfaction with the work environment. Evaluation of the nurses' responses to changes in health care delivery has important implications for justifying new clinical approaches and planning for future changes.
Patient privacy incidents occur frequently in an ED, risk factors being length of stay and absence of a walled cubicle. Patients who have their conversations overheard are more likely to withhold information from staff and less likely to have had their expectations of privacy met.
Although the cluster of cases of invasive aspergillosis could not be linked to the construction, the construction did increase the rates of Aspergillus colonization in the BMTU and adjacent wards. Periodic air samplings could not correlate conidia counts to invasive Aspergillus infection.
These results suggest that providing self-selected music to day procedure patients in the preprocedure period assists in the reduction of physiological parameters and anxiety, yet, a relaxing environment can assist in the reduction of physiological parameters.
These findings support our recommendation that there should be equal numbers of single and double rooms in adolescent inpatient units to accommodate these divided preferences among adolescents. Individual adolescent rooming preferences should be elicited and honored whenever feasible.
We confirmed earlier findings showing that BMAB is poorly tolerated. While mean pain scores were not significantly different between the study arms, secondary analyses suggest that viewing a nature scene while listening to nature sounds is a safe, inexpensive method that may reduce pain during BMAB. This approach should be considered to alleviate pain during invasive procedures.
In this randomized trial of black tea intake over 6 months among older adults with known cardiovascular risk factors, black tea did not appreciably influence any traditional or novel biomarkers of cardiovascular risk. Longer randomized trials are needed to verify the inverse association of tea with risk of cardiovascular disease seen in cohort studies and identify potential candidate mechanisms for such an association.
Tea drinking had no effect on the levels of the inflammation, haemostasis and endothelial cardiovascular risk factors measured. We did observe a relationship between the antioxidant variables alpha-tocopherol and beta-carotene and inflammation markers in this group of healthy smoking subjects.
We conclude that an amount of green tea extract which corresponds to 10 cups of tea per day for 4 weeks does not have specific effects on several indicators related to risk of cardiovascular diseases in comparison with placebo treatment. The relatively small but significant decrease in lipid peroxidation indicated by decreased plasma MDA was not associated with changes in markers of oxidative stress (urinary 8-isoprostaglandin F2 alpha and blood oxidized glutathione) or hemostasis.
Contrary to our initial hypothesis, tea ingestion caused larger acute increases in blood pressure than caffeine alone. However, any acute effects of tea on blood pressure did not translate into significant alterations in ambulatory blood pressure during regular tea consumption.
There was sufficient evidence to show risk reduction for CHD at intakes of > or = 3 cups per day and for improved antioxidant status at intakes of one to six cups per day. A maximum intake of eight cups per day would minimise any risk relating to excess caffeine consumption. Black tea generally had a positive effect on health.
To date, the effects of flavonoids from soy and cocoa have been the main focus of attention. Future studies should focus on other commonly consumed subclasses (eg, anthocyanins and flavanones), examine dose-response effects, and be of long enough duration to allow assessment of clinically relevant endpoints.
The burden of symptoms, prevalence of depression, and low quality of life are comparable in patients with ESRD and advanced CKD. Given the widely recognized impairments in these domains in ESRD, findings of this study underscore the substantial decrements in the physical and psychologic well-being of patients with CKD.
A non-penetrating sham needle may successfully blind participants and thus, may be a credible sham control. However, the small sample size, the different needle sensations, and the degree and direction of unblinding across acupuncture points warrant further studies in Korea as well as other countries to confirm our finding. Our results also justify the incorporation of formal testing of the use of sham controls in clinical trials of acupuncture.
Self-reported depression by two simple questions was associated with increased risks of mortality and hospitalization for hemodialysis patients. Future research needs to assess whether early identification and treatment of depression may help to improve quality of life and survival in hemodialysis patients.
Adolescent girls frequently suffer from menstrual discomfort and use OTC medications to manage the discomfort, but they may not be using OTC medications effectively. There are possible explanations for medicating behavior and future research directions should be considered.
Women who have pain lasting three days are an important target group for prophylactic therapy. The occurrence and severity of menstrual cramps is influenced by potentially modifiable characteristics including weight, smoking, and alcohol consumption. Doctors may wish to counsel women presenting with dysmenorrhoea about the importance of healthy lifestyles and about the inefficacy of alcohol consumption as a treatment for dysmenorrhoea.
A number of well-defined behavioral and relaxation interventions now exist and are effective in the treatment of chronic pain and insomnia. The panel found strong evidence for the use of relaxation techniques in reducing chronic pain in a variety of medical conditions as well as strong evidence for the use of hypnosis in alleviating pain associated with cancer. The evidence was moderate for the effectiveness of cognitive-behavioral techniques and biofeedback in relieving chronic pain. Regarding insomnia, behavioral techniques, particularly relaxation and biofeedback, produce improvements in some aspects of sleep, but it is questionable whether the magnitude of the improvement in sleep onset and total sleep time are clinically significant.
We concluded that 5 weeks of an LGI diet ameliorates some plasma lipid parameters, decreases total fat mass, and tends to increase lean body mass without changing body weight. These changes were accompanied by a decrease in the expression of some genes implicated in lipid metabolism. Such a diet could be of benefit to healthy, slightly overweight subjects and might play a role in the prevention of metabolic diseases and their cardiovascular complications.
An ad libitum reduced-GL diet appears to be a promising alternative to a conventional diet in obese adolescents. Large-scale randomized controlled trials are needed to further evaluate the effectiveness of reduced-GL and -glycemic index diets in the treatment of obesity and prevention of type 2 diabetes.
This study does not support the contention that low-fat LGI diets are more beneficial than HGI diets with regard to appetite or body-weight regulation as evaluated over 10 wk. However, it confirms previous findings of a beneficial effect of LGI diets on risk factors for ischemic heart disease.
Differences in insulin response between the meal replacements occurred, and prolongation of satiety after the LMR, based on time to request additional food, was observed. We speculate that the prolonged satiety associated with low GI foods may prove an effective method for reducing caloric intake and achieving long-term weight control.
In subjects with IGT, reducing the GI of the diet for 4 mo reduced postprandial plasma glucose by the same amount as did reducing carbohydrate intake. The 2 dietary maneuvers had different effects on postprandial plasma insulin, triacylglycerols, and FFAs.
There is insufficient evidence to make recommendations for or against the use of low-carbohydrate diets, particularly among participants older than age 50 years, for use longer than 90 days, or for diets of 20 g/d or less of carbohydrates. Among the published studies, participant weight loss while using low-carbohydrate diets was principally associated with decreased caloric intake and increased diet duration but not with reduced carbohydrate content.
Childhood overweight continues to increase rapidly in the United States, particularly among African Americans and Hispanics. Culturally competent treatment strategies as well as other policy interventions are required to increase physical activity and encourage healthy eating patterns among children.
Therefore, in China, IGT may occur with almost as high a frequency as diabetes and is accompanied by an increased frequency of CVD and its risk factors. Estimates from this study indicate that > 12.0% of all ECG-indicated CHD in the Da Qing population occurs in individuals with IGT and NIDDM. The IGT subjects identified in this survey form the cohort for a long-term follow-up and intervention study.
The epidemic will continue to increase and is due to a lifetime of exposures and influences. Genetic predisposition plays an unspecified role, and with programming during fetal life for adult disease contributing to an unknown degree. A global rise in obesity levels is contributing to a particular epidemic of type 2 diabetes as well as other NCDs. Prevention will be the most cost-effective and feasible approach for many countries and should involve three mutually reinforcing strategies throughout life, starting in the antenatal period.
The intensive lifestyle intervention produced long-term beneficial changes in diet, physical activity, and clinical and biochemical parameters and reduced diabetes risk. This type of intervention is a feasible option to prevent type 2 diabetes and should be implemented in the primary health care system.
Overall, weight-loss strategies using dietary, physical activity, or behavioral interventions produced significant improvements in weight among persons with pre-diabetes, and a significant decrease in diabetes incidence. Further work is needed on the long-term effects of these interventions on morbidity and mortality and on how to implement these interventions in the community setting.
There is a critical need to conduct and publish reports on well-designed community-based diabetes prevention research and share information on the process, results, and lessons learned. Armed with recent positive findings about diabetes prevention and literature documenting community-based efforts, advocates at local, state, and national levels can collaborate to stem the rising tide of diabetes in communities.
Based on the strength of available evidence regarding diet and lifestyle in the prevention of type 2 diabetes, it is recommended that a normal weight status in the lower BMI range (BMI 21-23) and regular physical activity be maintained throughout adulthood; abdominal obesity be prevented; and saturated fat intake be less than 7% of the total energy intake.
Impaired glucose tolerance is highly prevalent among children and adolescents with severe obesity, irrespective of ethnic group. Impaired oral glucose tolerance was associated with insulin resistance while beta-cell function was still relatively preserved. Overt type 2 diabetes was linked to beta-cell failure.
Findings in this pilot study show that Lactobacillus GG may improve gut barrier function and clinical status in children with mildly to moderately active, stable Crohn's disease. Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials are warranted for a final assessment of the efficacy of Lactobacillus GG in Crohn's disease.
Lactase deficient subjects benefit from a better lactose absorption after ingestion of yoghurt compared with milk and from milk added lactase, whereas ingestion of unfermented acidophilus milk does not seem to improve lactose absorption. The majority of studies support that lactic acid bacteria alleviate bacterial/viral induced diarrhoea, especially in infants, while the effect on antibiotic associated diarrhoea is less clear. Experimental studies indicate an effect of lactic bacteria on human cell cancer lines, but clinical evidence is lacking. A 'stabilising' effect of lactic acid bacteria on the colonic flora has not been documented.
From the results of this preliminary study, probiotic treatment appears to offer another option for maintenance therapy of ulcerative colitis. Additional support is provided for the hypothesis of a pathophysiological role for the intestinal environment in ulcerative colitis.
We could not find a significant advantage of laser needle acupuncture compared to placebo laser needle acupuncture treatment. Further investigations are recommended because laser needle treatment is non-invasive and allows double blind acupuncture studies.
Atosiban and SR 49059 both have moderate binding affinities for the human oxytocin receptor and high binding affinities for the vasopressin V1a one. We demonstrated that SR 49059 inhibits the response of term myometrium to oxytocin and that of both preterm and term myometrium to vasopressin. These observations suggest a therapeutic potential of SR 49059 in preterm labour. The vasopressin V2 receptor is apparently not involved to any significant degree in the activation of the pregnant human uterus.
Dysmenorrhea is highly prevalent among Hispanic adolescents and is related to school absenteeism and limitations on social, academic, and sports activities. Given that most adolescents do not seek medical advice for dysmenorrhea, health care providers should screen routinely for dysmenorrhea and offer treatment. As dysmenorrhea reportedly affects school performance and attendance, school administrators may have a vested interest in providing health education on this topic to their students. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2000;154:1226-1229.
Because of low methodologic quality and small sample size, there is no convincing evidence for acupuncture in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea. There is an urgent need for randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trials to assess the effects of acupuncture.
Relevant acupuncture with heat contributes to modest pain reduction in persons with myofascial neck pain. Previous experience with and confidence in treatment help to predict benefit. Measurement of nonspecific effects of alternative therapy is recommended in future clinical trials.
Chronic neck pain is a frequent symptom in the general population, particularly in women. Although reservations have to be taken as to the interpretation, the reported prevalence of persisting pain after whiplash injuries is of the same magnitude as the prevalence of chronic neck pain in the general population.
This approach has provided a beginning for less arbitrary definition of criteria for important change in patients and trials. It might be suggested that for patients, an improvement of at least 36% should be clinically important, while an active drug needs to be at least 18% better than placebo to be clinically important.
Consumers should consider reports of reviews both carefully and critically, given the wide variety of review methodology, descriptive information, and final conclusions. There is a paucity of evidence from primary studies on neck pain. Therefore, more research is needed to allow systematic reviews to formulate stronger conclusions.
This study found overall no significant difference between Dang Gui Buxue Tang and placebo in the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in Hong Kong Chinese women. The frequency of mild, moderate and severe hot flushes decreased in both treatment and placebo groups, but Dang Gui Buxue Tang was statistically superior to placebo only in the treatment of mild hot flushes. There were no serious adverse events attributable to treatment during the study period.
In this first biopsy-based analysis of the course of viral heart disease, we show that EV, ADV, PVB19, and HHV6 persistence detected in the myocardium of patients with LV dysfunction was associated with a progressive impairment of LVEF, whereas spontaneous viral elimination was associated with a significant improvement in LV function.
This study suggests that long-term dietary protein restriction beneficially reduces albuminuria and renal hemodynamics in IDDM patients with mildly elevated albuminuria. Systemic BP counteracts these effects even in the absence of hypertension. Suboptimal compliance limits diet efficacy.
There is no clear advantage for the recommendation of diets containing only PP rather than diets containing protein that is primarily animal-based for individuals with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria. There are, however, potential lipid, glycemic, and blood pressure benefits for following a carefully constructed, weight-maintaining, healthy diet, regardless of protein source.
Circadian rhythms appeared much more rapidly in this infant than previously reported; their rapid appearance was probably facilitated by maximal exposure to sunlight, and regular social cues. These lighting conditions replicate universal infant experience prior to the invention of artificial light.
Only a small percentage of thyroid nodules require surgical management. Diagnosis and treatment selection require a risk stratification by history, physical examination, and ancillary tests. Nodules causing airway compression or those at high risk for carcinoma should prompt evaluation for surgical treatment. In nodules larger than 1 cm, fine-needle aspiration biopsy is central to the evaluation as it is accurate, low risk, and cost effective. Subcentimeter nodules, often found incidentally on imaging obtained for another purpose, can usually be evaluated by ultrasonography. Other laboratory and imaging evaluations have specific and more limited roles. An algorithm for the evaluation of the thyroid nodule is presented.
Alvimopan is well tolerated and effective at accelerating GI recovery and time to discharge in patients who have undergone bowel resection or hysterectomy when administered prior to surgery and twice daily thereafter until discharge or for up to 7 days. Alvimopan potentially offers significant benefits for patients with POI over currently available treatments.
Physicians surveyed in this study who incorporate acupuncture into their practice do so mainly to treat pain problems. They are more likely to be in the 35 to 54 age group, nonspecialists, and in private practice when compared with national averages. These physicians are also more likely to use or endorse other complementary modalities.
The physical exercise intervention developed for the study, delivered by caregivers to home-dwelling patients with AD, was feasible and was associated with a trend for improved functional performance in this group of frail patients. Given the limited efficacy to date of pharmacotherapies for AD, further study of exercise intervention, in a variety of care setting, is warranted.
Modified Sun style tai chi did not have an impact on impairment, functional limitations, or disability in preclinically disabled older people when delivered for 24 weeks. Withdrawal from the exercise classes was high but did not explain the null result. Improved compliance, or a longer or more intensive program, may be required.
The present study shows that a short course of non-aerobic movement based exercise is already effective at least in some aspects of cognitive functioning in patients with AD. Although the present study is a pilot study with small samples, nevertheless, the results are promising for the further investigation and development of non-aerobic movement programmes.
Weekly and twice-weekly iron therapy with 5 mg elemental iron as ferrous sulfate per kilogram of body weight accompanied by nutritional counseling was as effective as daily iron therapy in correcting iron-deficiency anemia in 2- to 6-year-old children under the clinical conditions of this study.
Twice-weekly MMN supplementation for 12 wk significantly improved the status of the micronutrients assessed but was not more efficacious than was supplementation with iron and folic acid alone in improving the hematologic status of anemic adolescent girls. More frequent doses may be needed to achieve full benefit.
The daily dosage recommended by the Sociedade Brasileira de Pediatria was found to be more effective to prevent anemia in infants, when compared to the dosage used by the Ministry of Health. The weekly dosage recommended by the Brazilian government program needs to be reviewed to increase the effectiveness of prevention of anemia in infants cared for in public health services.
Weekly iron-folic acid supplementation combined with monthly education sessions and deworming every 6 months is cost-effective in reducing the prevalence of anemia in adolescent girls. Appropriate counseling, irrespective of supervision, is critical for achieving positive outcomes.
The prevalence of zinc deficiency and anemia was high in this population of low-income minority children, especially among African Americans. Further investigation of the incidence of zinc deficiency and the ability of anemia to screen for it is warranted.
In contrast to the findings of previous studies, CAM use appears to be associated with increased likelihood of receipt of preventive care services and increased emergency department and primary care visits. CAM use may not be a barrier to use of conventional medical services in adults with diabetes.
There is still insufficient evidence to draw definitive conclusions about the efficacy of individual herbs and supplements for diabetes; however, they appear to be generally safe. The available data suggest that several supplements may warrant further study. The best evidence for efficacy from adequately designed randomized controlled trials (RCTs) is available for Coccinia indica and American ginseng. Chromium has been the most widely studied supplement. Other supplements with positive preliminary results include Gymnema sylvestre, Aloe vera, vanadium, Momordica charantia, and nopal.
Only a limited number of psychosocial factors were associated with nausea and vomiting and fatigue in early pregnancy. Depression was related to physical symptoms, but unclear was whether depression preceded or resulted from the symptoms. Many women experienced symptoms, and better understanding of causality is needed to ameliorate the effects on women's well-being.
Women at higher risk for poor maternal psychosocial adaptation have not planned their pregnancy and experience severe pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting. Severe pregnancy-related nausea and vomiting associated with high-perceived stress levels may be mediated by social support.
Despite the widespread, popular use of herbal remedies during pregnancy, too few studies have been devoted to specific clinical investigations. With the exception of ginger, there is no data to support the use of any other herbal supplement during pregnancy.
Many women use complementary and alternative medicine when they are pregnant. Further research is needed to gain a greater understanding of the true prevalence and expectant women's motivation for the use of complementary and alternative medicine. Health-care professionals are encouraged to ask women about their use of these treatments and seek out relevant information.
Traditional teachings about nausea and vomiting of pregnancy are contradicted by our findings. Standardized tools for measuring the distribution, duration, and intensity of nausea are applicable to the study of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy and could be used in clinical trials to assess palliative measures.
Only 4 weeks of an LGI diet was able to improve glycemic control, glucose utilization, some lipid profiles, and the capacity for fibrinolysis in type 2 diabetes. Even if changes in glycemic control were modest during the 4-week period, the use of an LGI diet in a longer-term manner might play an important role in the treatment and prevention of diabetes and related disorders.
A 10% increase in carbohydrate intake associated with breakfast cereal consumption had no deleterious effects on glycemic control or blood lipids over 6 mo in subjects with type 2 diabetes. The increase in plasma insulin and the reduction in free fatty acids associated with higher carbohydrate intake may reduce the rate of progression of diabetes.
High-fiber cereal foods did not improve conventional markers of glycemic control or risk factors for CHD in type 2 diabetes over 3 months. Possibly longer studies are required to demonstrate the benefits of cereal fiber. Alternatively, cereal fiber in the diet may be a marker for another component of whole grains that imparts health advantages or a healthy lifestyle.
Dietary glycemic load is significantly and positively associated with plasma hs-CRP in healthy middle-aged women, independent of conventional risk factors for ischemic heart disease. Exacerbation of the proinflammatory process may be a mechanism whereby a high intake of rapidly digested and absorbed carbohydrates increases the risk of ischemic heart disease, especially in overweight women prone to insulin resistance.
The rapid absorption of glucose after consumption of high-GI meals induces a sequence of hormonal and metabolic changes that promote excessive food intake in obese subjects. Additional studies are needed to examine the relationship between dietary GI and long-term body weight regulation.
These results indicate that in type 1 diabetic subjects 1) increasing the amount of carbohydrate intake does not influence glycemic control if premeal regular insulin is adjusted to the carbohydrate content of the meals; 2) algorithms based on U/10 g of carbohydrate are effective and safe, whatever the amount of carbohydrate in the meal; 3) the glycemic index, fiber, and lipidic and caloric content of the meals do not affect premeal regular insulin requirements; 4) wide variations in carbohydrate intake do not modify basal (ultralente) insulin requirements; and, finally 5) the ultralente-regular insulin regimen allows dissection between basal and prandial insulin requirements, so that each can be adjusted accurately and independently.
In nondiabetic subjects, the type and amount of carbohydrate eaten at breakfast influences the plasma glucose, insulin, and FFA responses to breakfast and also affects the glucose, insulin, and FFA responses to a subsequent standard lunch. The glycemic responses after lunch were closely related to the plasma FFA concentration 4 h after breakfast, which we speculate is due to the inhibitory effect of FFAs on insulin action.
These results demonstrate a continuous, graded relationship of serum cholesterol level to long-term risk of CHD, CVD, and all-cause mortality, substantial absolute risk and absolute excess risk of CHD and CVD death for younger men with elevated serum cholesterol levels, and longer estimated life expectancy for younger men with favorable serum cholesterol levels. JAMA. 2000;284:311-318
In patients with type 2 diabetes the risk of diabetic complications was strongly associated with previous hyperglycaemia. Any reduction in HbA(1c) is likely to reduce the risk of complications, with the lowest risk being in those with HbA(1c) values in the normal range (<6.0%).
The administration of CoQ10 to heart transplant candidates led to a significant improvement in functional status, clinical symptoms, and quality of life. However, there were no objective changes in echo measurements or ANF and TNF blood levels. Coenzyme Q10 may serve as an optional addition to the pharmacologic armamentarium of patients with end-stage heart failure. The apparent discrepancy between significant clinical improvement and unchanged cardiac status requires further investigation.
This pilot study accords with published data suggesting that CoQ10 therapy improves cardiac functional status in patients with moderately severe dilated cardiomyopathy receiving maximal non beta-blocker therapy. Future multicentre studies with larger numbers are indicated.
In type 2 diabetic subjects with LVDD, neither fenofibrate nor CoQ, alone or in combination, improved diastolic function significantly. However, fenofibrate and CoQ independently and interactively lowered 24-h blood pressure, and fenofibrate alone reduced 24-h HR.
These findings indicate that treatment with ubiquinol + L-carnitine can cause a significant reduction in the pro-inflammatory cytokines that are neurohumoural precursors related to sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, which is impaired in patients with heart failure. There was no adverse effect on IL-10. There was a significant improvement in quality of life as well as decrease in NYHA-defined heart failure.
In patients with left ventricular dysfunction, treatment for three months with oral coenzyme Q failed to improve resting left ventricular systolic function or quality of life despite an increase in plasma levels of coenzyme Q to more than twice basal values.
Simvastatin and the combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe significantly decrease plasma CoQ10 levels whereas ezetimibe monotherapy does not. There is a significant correlation between the CoQ10 level decrease and the decrease in total and LDL-C levels in all three treatment groups, suggesting that the CoQ10 decrease may reflect the decrease in the levels of its lipoprotein carriers and might not be statin-specific. The statin-associated CoQ10 reduction is not abrogated through ezetimibe coadministration. Changes of CoQ10 levels are independent of cholesterol synthesis and absorption.
Community-dwelling elderly persons, especially those with impaired left ventricular function, have a substantial risk for death from congestive heart failure. However, more deaths occur from heart failure in persons with normal systolic function because left ventricular function is more often normal than impaired in elderly persons with heart failure.
In the community, systolic dysfunction is frequently present in individuals without recognized CHF. Furthermore, diastolic dysfunction as rigorously defined by comprehensive Doppler techniques is common, often not accompanied by recognized CHF, and associated with marked increases in all-cause mortality.
This meta-analysis demonstrates that a fixed dose at least 1 g of ginger is more effective than placebo for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting and postoperative vomiting. Use of ginger is an effective means for reducing postoperative nausea and vomiting.
Our results suggest that lavender aromatherapy can be used to reduce the demand for opioids in the immediate postoperative period. Further studies are required to assess the effect of this therapy on clinically meaningful outcomes, such as the incidence of respiratory complications, delayed gastric emptying, length of hospital stay, or whether this therapy is applicable to other operations.
The empirical evidence suggests that both prenatal screening and cascade screening are feasible and acceptable. Population-based prenatal screening is more efficacious, but it will cost more than active cascade screening. The active cascade screening of affected families is more efficient, cheaper, but less effective than a population-based prenatal screening. It is suggested that both strategies be evaluated in large-scale trials, which might also help to determine whether and how the different strategies could be simultaneously or sequentially combined.
Modification of the cation content of a limited number of commonly consumed foods lowers BP by a clinically significant magnitude in treated South African hypertensive patients of low socio-economic status. The magnitude of BP reduction provides motivation for a public health strategy that could be adopted through lobbying of the food industry by consumer and health agencies.
Patients with elevated blood pressure should follow a weight-reducing diet, take regular exercise, and restrict alcohol and salt intake. Available evidence does not support relaxation therapies, calcium, magnesium or potassium supplements to reduce blood pressure.
Over a period of four years, stage 1 hypertension developed in nearly two thirds of patients with untreated prehypertension (the placebo group). Treatment of prehypertension with candesartan appeared to be well tolerated and reduced the risk of incident hypertension during the study period. Thus, treatment of prehypertension appears to be feasible. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
There is an increased risk of mortality in depression. An important finding of this study is that the increased risk not only exists in major depression, but also in subclinical forms of depression. In many cases, depression should be considered as a life-threatening disorder.
there was a high prevalence of cognitive impairment. This representative sample demonstrates the potential burden of disease and service demands. It supports the need for a broader assessment of functioning as recommended by the National Service Framework for Older People, particularly in people with cognitive impairment.
Replicating the earlier results, the theoretically different approaches tended to have equivalent outcomes. Caution is warranted because of limited treatment specification, non-random assignment, incomplete data, and other issues. Insofar as these routine treatments appear effective for patients who complete them, those who fail to complete (or to begin) treatment deserve attention by researchers and policymakers.
Vitamin D insufficiency was prevalent among urban pregnant minority adolescents. Further studies are needed to address the impact of this finding on maternal and neonatal calcium homeostasis and bone health.
Hypovitaminosis D was present in a substantial proportion of the African-American population studied, even in the South and among those meeting recommended dietary guidelines. Vitamin D should continue to be a studied target for ameliorating racial cancer disparities in the US.
Our study brings out two interesting observations. First, that serum IGF-I levels were significantly lower in preeclamptic than in control pregnant women; and second, the existence of a significant correlation between serum IGF-I and 1,25-(OH)2D concentrations in both preeclamptic and normotensive pregnant women.
Low maternal 25-(OH)D in late pregnancy is associated with reduced intrauterine long bone growth and slightly shorter gestation. The long-term consequences for linear growth and health require follow-up. The positive relationship between maternal PTH and measures of infant size may relate to increased mineral demands by larger babies, but warrants further investigation.
The high prevalence of hypovitaminosis D among African American women warrants further examination of vitamin D recommendations for these women. The determinants of hypovitaminosis D among women should be considered when these women are advised on dietary intake and supplement use.
A significant proportion of pregnant women in Newfoundland and Labrador are vitamin D insufficient. Vitamin D insufficiency may have important adverse health consequences for both the mother and the fetus. Further study is necessary to address health outcomes and effects of vitamin D supplementation and lifestyle changes in this population.
Collectively, the data illustrate that at mid-gestation 1,25(OH)2D3 is fully active in the modulation of all D3-hydroxylases in the human developing intestine. They also show that the detoxifying enzyme CYP3A4 is not only present along the intestinal tract but is also sensitive to 1,25(OH)2D3, indicating that the hormone may be a key element in intestinal development and in the maintenance of the intestinal mucosa integrity in the basal state and in response to damage-inducing agents.
All patients undergoing flexible cystoscopy in the office setting experienced discomfort. The TENS device provided no significant benefit for pain. The trend toward greater pain scores in the control group could be attributed to the greater degree of difficulty.
A 10-minute application of burst-type TENS increases in a small but statistically significant manner the RPPT over upper trapezius latent MTrPs and the ipsilateral cervical range of motion.
There is a close association between reduced expression of LI-cadherin and lymph node metastasis in human gastric cancer. Immunohistochemical study of LI-cadherin is relatively simple compared to sentinel node navigation surgery, and it could be a practical prediction method for lymph node metastasis in patients with this malignancy.
TENS administered at a strong but comfortable non-painful stimulation intensity increases mechanical pain threshold ipsi-laterally in healthy subjects, whereas TENS administered at sensory threshold intensity does not. TENS may be ineffective if electrodes are placed contralaterally or distant to the pain site and if stimulation intensity levels are not titrated to subjective strong levels. Further clinical trials are needed to clarify if these findings may also be generalized to populations of chronic pain sufferers.
This study has shown for the first time that treatment with curcumin can prevent and improve murine experimental colitis. This finding suggests that curcumin could be a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
An increase in calcium intake tends to lower office, home and ambulatory blood pressure in hypertensive patients. However, the antihypertensive effect is too small to support the general application of a high calcium intake in the treatment of hypertension.
XSC could markedly reduce the occurrence of restenosis, recurrence of angina and improve the condition of blood stasis after coronary angioplasty or/and stenting. The severity of blood stasis syndrome was an important affecting factor on the occurrence of restenosis. BSSS > 25 can be served as one of the predicting factors of the occurrence of restenosis after coronary angioplasty or/and stenting.
Early thrombus formation is minimal, and thrombus accounts for a small portion of subsequent neointimal formation. Smooth muscle cell proliferation and matrix formation are the major factors relating to neointimal formation in this proliferative model of restenosis. The evolution of neointimal formation after coronary stenting shows maximal smooth muscle cell proliferation at 7 days, with a decline to low levels by 28 days. Therefore, these data may be useful for developing effective therapies for restenosis.
In RCTs, no significant differences were observed in the long-term rates of death or myocardial infarction after DES or BMS use for either off-label or on-label indications. In real-world nonrandomized observational studies with greater numbers of patients but the admitted potential for selection bias and residual confounding, DES use was associated with reduced death and myocardial infarction. Both RCTs and observational studies demonstrated marked and comparable reductions in target vessel revascularization with DES compared with BMS. These data in aggregate suggest that DES are safe and efficacious in both on-label and off-label use but highlight differences between RCT and observational data comparing DES and BMS.
Drug-eluting stents were associated with an increased rate of death, as compared with bare-metal stents. This trend appeared after 6 months, when the risk of death was 0.5 percentage point higher and a composite of death or myocardial infarction was 0.5 to 1.0 percentage point higher per year. The long-term safety of drug-eluting stents needs to be ascertained in large, randomized trials.
Compared to conventional bare stents, the SESs were not associated with an increased risk of stent thrombosis and were effective in reducing the incidence of adverse events at 300 days in unselected patients with ST-segment elevation acute MI referred for primary angioplasty.
In this randomized clinical trial involving patients with complex coronary lesions, the use of a sirolimus-eluting stent had a consistent treatment effect, reducing the rates of restenosis and associated clinical events in all subgroups analyzed.
Over seven months of follow-up, the clinical and angiographic outcomes were better in patients who received a stent than in those who received standard coronary angioplasty. However, this benefit was achieved at the cost of a significantly higher risk of vascular complications at the access site and a longer hospital stay.
An elemental diet for 2 weeks resulted in a clinical improvement in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis, and was as effective as a course of oral prednisolone 15 mg daily in improving subjective clinical parameters. This study supports the concept that rheumatoid arthritis may be a reaction to a food antigen(s) and that the disease process starts within the intestine.
Educating patients in order to change lifestyle habits and influence outcome is a long term challenge facing all healthcare workers. In our cohort, most adverse lifestyle factors had already been recognised and discussed by the general practitioner or at prior clinic visits. Additional advice and input led to only modest improvement.
After 12 weeks of anti-TNF-alpha therapy, there were significant improvements in disease activity and physical function, as well as physical activity and protein intake, but no significant changes in REE or FFM. There is a need for longer-term studies in this field.
There is an increased prevalence of low body mass, greatest for lean tissue, in the RA population. In the female group there was an inverse relation between the acute phase response and fat free mass. Female patients with RA who lose a significant amount of weight are more disabled as assessed by HAQ.
This study confirms that rheumatoid arthritis is a risk factor for CVD events and shows that the rate ratio for CVD events among subjects with rheumatoid arthritis is highest in young adults and those without known prior CVD events. However, in absolute terms, the difference in event rates is highest in older adults.
National data demonstrate a marked decrease in serum 25(OH)D levels from the 1988-1994 to the 2001-2004 NHANES data collections. Racial/ethnic differences have persisted and may have important implications for known health disparities. Current recommendations for vitamin D supplementation are inadequate to address the growing epidemic of vitamin D insufficiency.
On the basis of a bi-directional genetic approach that limits confounding, our study suggests that a higher BMI leads to lower 25(OH)D, while any effects of lower 25(OH)D increasing BMI are likely to be small. Population level interventions to reduce BMI are expected to decrease the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency.
Among these children with measles in an urban United States community, retinol concentrations were depressed, and the degree of depression was associated with illness severity. Vitamin A therapy should be considered for children with measles in the United States who require hospitalization.
The regular provision of a supplement of vitamin A to children, at a level potentially obtainable from foods, in an area where vitamin A deficiency and under-nutrition are documented public health problems contributed substantially to children's survival; mortality was reduced on average by 54 percent.
The results suggest that acupuncture could be a good alternative or complement to those parturients who seek an alternative to pharmacological analgesia in childbirth. Further trials with a larger number of patients are required to clarify if the main effect of acupuncture during labour is analgesic or relaxing.
This review highlights four research gaps in the literature, a lack of: large representative samples; in-depth understanding of user experiences and risk perceptions; research comparing consumption patterns across cultures and over time; and work exploring the nature of the therapeutic encounter with complementary practitioners in this area of women's health care.
In this pilot study, risperidone demonstrated efficacy equivalent to clonidine in the treatment of tic symptoms in children and adolescents with TS. Further research is needed to clarify the role of atypical antipsychotics in TS and to delineate potential benefits for comorbid obsessive-compulsive and attention-deficit/hyperactivity symptoms.
The pattern of activation during hypnotic state differs from those induced in normal subjects by the simple evocation of autobiographical memories. It shares many similarities with mental imagery, from which it differs by the relative deactivation of precuneus.
Daily consumption of folic acid-fortified breakfast cereals and the use of folic acid supplements appear to be the most effective means of reducing tHcy concentrations. The reduction in tHcy was significantly negatively correlated with the increase in serum folate, which may be a useful marker for measuring dietary change.
In overweight adults with high-normal BP, weight loss and reduction in sodium intake, individually and in combination, were effective in lowering systolic and diastolic BP, especially in the short-term (6 months). Although the effects on average BP declined over time, reductions in hypertension incidence were achieved.
The short-term reduction in LDL cholesterol level achieved after counseling by dietitians is superior to that achieved by physicians. However, long-term compliance remains inadequate. For patients at high risk, consideration should be given to a more aggressive dietary approach and possibly earlier introduction of lipid-lowering medications.
This brief educational intervention was associated with higher levels of self-reported fruit and vegetable intake at both short- and long-term follow-up. Additional research is recommended to test this or a similar intervention in diverse populations.
GPs were aware of substantial risk factors of cardiovascular disease and addressed these when counselling. The guidance from a GP was of significant importance for risk reduction in relation to IHD. However, a long-term lifestyle intervention by GP was difficult to implement. In the case of obesity it was effective to refer to long-term nutritional counselling by a dietician.
As most general practices are not using such an intensive programme the changes in coronary risk factors achieved by the voluntary health promotion package for primary care are likely to be even smaller. The government's screening policy cannot be justified by these results.
The response to a step 1 diet is too small to have any value in the clinical management of adults with serum cholesterol concentrations above 6.5 mmol/l. Current guidelines recommend screening of serum cholesterol concentration in healthy subjects, followed by treatment with a step 1 diet. The guidelines should be reviewed to provide a more realistic estimate of the effect of a step 1 diet and of the likely need for lipid lowering drugs.
Applying between group analysis we were unable to demonstrate a beneficial symptomatic effect of PEMF in the treatment of knee OA in all patients. However, in patients <65 years of age there is significant and beneficial effect of treatment related to stiffness.
The tendon returned to histological normality in all groups, but the PMF 17Hz group showed better collagen alignment by the end of the study. PMF 17Hz resulted in a greater reduction of inflammation, with a better return of the tendon to histological normality. Different PMF and PEMF could be applied according to when treatment is started after the injury. If there is no delay between injury and beginning of pulsed magnetic treatment, PMF 17 should be used.
The present study does not give support to the previous studies, which indicates that acupuncture treatment may have a beneficial effect on acute stroke patients' ability to perform daily life activities, their health-related quality of life, and their use of health care and social services.
When compared with a control group that received subliminal electrostimulation, treatment during the subacute phase of stroke with acupuncture or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation with muscle contractions had no beneficial effects on functional outcome or life satisfaction.
Comparison with a similar survey in Britain showed reported use of most treatments for acute ischemic stroke was more extensive in China, but that within both countries there was wide variation. The substantial variations in clinical practice both within and between China, the United Kingdom and other countries reflect, at least in part, the substantial uncertainty about the effectiveness of many of the possible treatments for acute ischemic stroke. Large-scale randomized evidence is needed to confirm or refute the efficacy of these and newer treatments for acute stroke.
There is no consensus on the level of outcome to be used, the method of measurement to be used, or the most appropriate timing of the assessment. It is recommended that future studies should include extended/instrumental activities and advanced mobility as components of the primary outcome measure, with outcome assessment being undertaken at 6 months. New initiatives in developing stroke-specific outcomes may address some of the current problems in the assessment of stroke outcomes
We found little evidence in general that placebos had powerful clinical effects. Although placebos had no significant effects on objective or binary outcomes, they had possible small benefits in studies with continuous subjective outcomes and for the treatment of pain. Outside the setting of clinical trials, there is no justification for the use of placebos.
Among the efficacy trials in acute stroke, we found remarkable differences in the choice of primary end points and in the definition of favorable outcome on both the BI and MRS. This lack of consensus strongly hinders the design, interpretation, and comparison of acute stroke trials. In general, it may be easier to define poor outcome instead of favorable outcome. Poor outcome could be defined if any of the following end points are reached: death, institutionalization due to stroke, MRS >3, or BI <60.
This meta-analysis suggests that with stroke rehabilitation, acupuncture has no additional effect on motor recovery but has a small positive effect on disability, which may be due to a true placebo effect and varied study quality. The efficacy of acupuncture without stroke rehabilitation remains uncertain, mainly because of the poor quality of such studies.
The lower resistance indices of the uterine artery during sodium restriction might reflect an increase in pulse pressure/impedance ratio as a result of activation of the renin-angiotensin system. The increase in umbilical artery resistance indices supports the hypothesis that fetal circulation might be altered by chronic dietary sodium restriction.
Chronic dietary sodium restriction during pregnancy is characterized by a diminished body fat accumulation and a reduction in circulating volume, due to a decrease in both plasma and red cell volume, in combination with a high systemic vascular resistance without major effects on blood pressure and birthweight.
For patients with retinitis pigmentosa beginning vitamin A therapy, addition of docosahexaenoic acid, 1200 mg/d, slowed the course of disease for 2 years. Among patients on vitamin A for at least 2 years, a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids (> or =0.20 g/d) slowed the decline in visual field sensitivity.
Although DHA-supplemented patients had significantly elevated mean RBC-DHA levels, the rate of cone ERG functional loss was not significantly different between groups. Supplemental analyses provided evidence for a DHA benefit and a direction for subsequent investigations.
These results stress that although visual function deteriorated over time for this group of patients with RP, there were differences among our measures of visual function. Measures that primarily assess central retinal function change relatively slowly compared with measures that assess more peripheral retinal function.
Patients with retinitis pigmentosa may have a measurable degree of RNFL thinning as determined by OCT. These observations could have an impact on future treatment strategies and imply that patients considered for various treatment options would benefit by an evaluation of nerve fiber layer thickness.
In the current study using UHR-OCT, a new thickness measurement termed FOSPET is demonstrated to quantify photoreceptor loss. FOSPET was statistically thinner in patients with RP and related diseases than in normal eyes and showed correlation with logMAR visual acuity. FOSPET appears to be a probable predictor of visual acuity in RP.
This study suggests that in cases of ear pain caused by AOM in children in which active treatment, besides a simple 2- to 3-day waiting period, is needed, an herbal extract solution may be beneficial. Concomitant antibiotic treatment is apparently not contributory.
The natural history of otitis media is very favorable. Combined estimates of spontaneous resolution provide a benchmark against which to judge new or established interventions. The need for surgery in children with recurrent AOM or chronic OME should be balanced against the likelihood of timely spontaneous resolution and the potential risk of learning, language, or other adverse sequelae from persistent middle ear effusion. Further research is needed to identify prognostic factors that can target children unlikely to improve spontaneously for earlier intervention.
Most primary care physicians accept the concept of an observation option for acute otitis media but use it only occasionally. Antibiotics prescribed for acute otitis media differ markedly from the guideline's recommendations, and the difference has increased since 2004.
CSP has significant effect on the improvement of angina symptoms and ECG results with few adverse events. However, the methodological quality of clinical trials with CSP for SAP needs to be improved, and the outcome measures should include mortality, quality of life, and other end-points.
In extreme old age, Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia influence the mortality rate considerably. However, mild Alzheimer disease does not influence longevity, at least not during the first 7 years. These findings have important public health implications.
Vascular disease in the brain is prevalent among incident dementia cases. There is a substantial overlap between cases classified as Alzheimer disease by Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association and vascular dementia (VaD) by modified State of California Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostic and Treatment Centers criteria. The substantial contribution of vascular disease would be missed without inclusion of MRI. Treatment of risk factors for VaD could have an important impact on incidence of dementia.
Our data suggest that a single explanation for poststroke dementia is not adequate; rather, multiple factors including stroke features (dysphasia, major dominant stroke syndrome), host characteristics (educational level), and prior cerebrovascular disease each independently contribute to the risk.
In this Italian population-based cohort, incidence of dementia increased with age, and Alzheimer disease (AD) was the most frequent type of dementia. Poor education was associated with a higher risk of AD. Our incidence rates are higher than previously reported in Italy, and provide new estimates for projection of future burden of disease in Italy.
Overall, ergoloid mesylates were more effective than placebo. However, the effect in patients with possible Alzheimer's dementia was very modest at best. The dose-response relation suggests that potentially effective doses may be higher than the currently approved. The circumstances of the efficacy of Hydergine remain inadequately defined.
We established the feasibility of a full scale trial, successfully recruiting patients and calculating the sample size required. The results of our pilot analysis suggest that more definitive research into acupuncture for IBS is merited. A pragmatic trial design will not be able to distinguish between acupuncture specific effects and placebo effects; however, it is the design of choice to determine cost effectiveness.
Acupuncture in IBS is primarily a placebo response. Based on the small differences found between the AC and SAC groups, a study including 566 patients would be necessary to prove the efficacy of AC over SAC. The placebo response may be predicted by high coping capacity and low sleep quality in individual patients.
Although the true acupuncture results were consistently better, no difference was found between the two groups in the overall statistical analysis. We could not show a therapeutic benefit of this treatment modality in irritable bowel syndrome.
Hand searching is important for locating all relevant trials. There is the need for higher methodological quality in clinical trial reporting in dermatology journals. The adoption of the CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) statement and checklist for the reporting of trials should enhance the validity of and strengthen the evidence from clinical trials reports.
The Adequate Relief question is the measure of first choice when assessing global symptomatology as an outcome in IBS studies. For a more detailed IBS symptom assessment, the IBS Severity Scoring System is preferable. Finally, the IBS Quality of Life measurement scale can be used to establish changes in health-related quality of life.
(i) There is reasonable evidence for a decrease in HRQoL in patients with moderate to severe irritable bowel syndrome; however, the data are conflicting regarding the impact of irritable bowel syndrome on HRQoL in population-based studies of nonconsulters. (ii) HRQoL in irritable bowel syndrome patients is impaired to a degree comparable to other chronic disorders such as GERD and depression. (iii) A therapeutic response in irritable bowel syndrome-related pain has a corresponding improvement in HRQoL. (iv) Limitations of the literature include focusing on moderate-severe irritable bowel syndrome in referral centres, and lack of appropriate controls
This randomized controlled trial demonstrated that mindfulness training has a substantial therapeutic effect on bowel symptom severity, improves health-related quality of life, and reduces distress. The beneficial effects persist for at least 3 months after group training.
The IBS-36 addresses all areas of quality of life affected by IBS and is easy to administer and score. The IBS-36 is a well-validated, condition-specific quality of life measure for IBS patients that is sensitive to clinical intervention and highly correlated with established quality of life measures and patient-reported symptom scores.
Smooth-muscle relaxants are beneficial when abdominal pain is the predominant symptom. In contrast, the efficacy of bulking agents has not been established. Loperamide is effective for diarrhea. Evidence for use of psychotropic agents is inconclusive; more high-quality trials of longer duration are needed. Evidence for the efficacy of 5-HT-receptor antagonists seems favorable, although more studies are needed.
The results of this study suggest that patient expectations may influence clinical outcome independently of the treatment itself. In contrast, general optimism about treatment, divorced from a specific treatment, is not strongly associated with outcome. These results may have important implications for clinical trial design and recruitment, and may help to explain the apparent success of some conventional and alternative therapies in trials that do not control for patient expectations. The findings also may be important for therapy choices made in the clinical setting.
The sham device had greater effects than the placebo pill on self reported pain and severity of symptoms over the entire course of treatment but not during the two week placebo run in. Placebo effects seem to be malleable and depend on the behaviours embedded in medical rituals.
Using Rome I symptom criteria, we found that IBS is associated with a broad pattern of increased health care use and costs. The severity of abdominal pain/discomfort is a significant predictor of health care use and costs for patients with IBS compared with non-IBS subjects.
The prevalence of IBS varied substantially depending on the specific definition of IBS used. The range of prevalence estimates in Olmsted County was similar to other published figures when IBS definition was accounted for. These findings are useful in interpreting epidemiological and clinical studies of IBS.
These findings suggest that the Rome criteria combined with a lack of red flags have a very high predictive value for diagnosing irritable bowel syndrome. Application of these diagnostic criteria has the potential to alter utilization of health care resources.
Although albuterol, but not the two placebo interventions, improved FEV(1) in these patients with asthma, albuterol provided no incremental benefit with respect to the self-reported outcomes. Placebo effects can be clinically meaningful and can rival the effects of active medication in patients with asthma. However, from a clinical-management and research-design perspective, patient self-reports can be unreliable. An assessment of untreated responses in asthma may be essential in evaluating patient-reported outcomes. (Funded by the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine.).
Fish oil supplementation reduced the recurrence risk of pre-term delivery, but had no effect on pre-term delivery in twin pregnancies. Fish oil had no effect on intrauterine growth retardation and pregnancy induced hypertension, affecting neither recurrence risk nor risk in twin pregnancies.
Maternal ALA+LA supplementation did not promote neonatal DHA+AA status. The lower concentrations of Osbond acid (22:5n-6) in maternal plasma phospholipids and umbilical arterial wall phospholipids with ALA+LA supplementation than with LA supplementation suggest only that functional DHA status improves with ALA+LA supplementation.
These findings demonstrate an association between the DHA status of term infants and retinal sensitivity, suggesting an essential role of this long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid (LCPUFA) in the development and function of the retina. However, maternal DHA status was not significantly associated with infant retinal sensitivity and no direct effect of maternal supplementation was observed.
Treatment of patients with CHD and major depression with sertraline and omega-3 fatty acids did not result in superior depression outcomes at 10 weeks, compared with sertraline and placebo. Whether higher doses of omega-3 or sertraline, a different ratio of EPA to DHA, longer treatment, or omega-3 monotherapy can improve depression in patients with CHD remains to be determined.
Obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome is associated with a relatively poor response to sertraline treatment for depression. Future research should determine the contribution of OSAHS to the increased risk of adverse cardiac outcome associated with treatment-resistant depression.
Combination therapy was more effective than monotherapy in decreasing signs and symptoms of MDD during the 8 weeks of active treatment; however, combination therapy did not seem to enhance the speed of the initial antidepressant response. These findings suggest that there may be an advantage to combining omega-3 fatty acids with a selective serotonin uptake inhibitor in the initial treatment of individuals with MDD. A larger definitive study is warranted.
In this heterogeneous sample of patients with MDE, there was only a trend toward superiority of omega-3 supplementation over placebo in reducing depressive symptoms. However, there was a clear benefit of omega-3 supplementation among patients with MDE without comorbid anxiety disorders.
To our knowledge, this is the first trial of n-3 supplementation in the treatment of PD and depressive symptoms in middle-aged women. In women with PD without MDE at baseline, the 8-wk changes in PD and depressive scales improved significantly more with E-EPA than with placebo. This trial was registered at http://www.controlled-trials.com as ISRCTN69617477.
Trial evidence that examines the effects of n-3 PUFAs on depressed mood is limited and is difficult to summarize and evaluate because of considerable heterogeneity. The evidence available provides little support for the use of n-3 PUFAs to improve depressed mood. Larger trials with adequate power to detect clinically important benefits are required.
Trial evidence of the effects of n-3 PUFAs on depressed mood has increased but remains difficult to summarize because of considerable heterogeneity. The evidence available provides some support of a benefit of n-3 PUFAs in individuals with diagnosed depressive illness but no evidence of any benefit in individuals without a diagnosis of depressive illness.
There was no association between postnatal depression and either fish consumption in early pregnancy, or omega-3 status after birth. Our findings make it difficult to justify trials of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids in the treatment of postnatal depression.
Omega-3 fatty acids lowered T(2) values, consistent with the hypothesis that the fluidity of cell membranes was altered. Further studies are needed to clarify the significance of alterations in brain physiology induced by omega-3 fatty acids, as reflected in T(2) values.
Drug-placebo differences in antidepressant efficacy increase as a function of baseline severity, but are relatively small even for severely depressed patients. The relationship between initial severity and antidepressant efficacy is attributable to decreased responsiveness to placebo among very severely depressed patients, rather than to increased responsiveness to medication.
Although our meta-analysis showed significant antidepressant efficacy of omega-3 PUFAs, it is still premature to validate this finding due to publication bias and heterogeneity. More large-scale, well-controlled trials are needed to find out the favorable target subjects, therapeutic dose of EPA, and the composition of omega-3 PUFAs in treating depression.
This study failed to substantiate a clear inverse relationship between fish and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid intake and postpartum depression. Further investigations are needed to determine whether fish and n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid consumption is preventive against postpartum depression.
These data describe a robust correlational relationship between greater seafood consumption and lower prevalence rates of bipolar disorders. These data provide a cross-national context for understanding ongoing clinical intervention trials of omega-3 fatty acids in bipolar disorders.
Deficits in omega-3 fatty acids have been identified as a contributing factor to mood disorders and offer a potential rational treatment approach. This review identifies a number of hypotheses and studies for consideration. In particular, the authors argue for studies clarifying the efficacy of omega-3 supplementation for unipolar and bipolar depressive disorders, both as individual and augmentation treatment strategies, and for studies pursuing which omega-3 fatty acid, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) or docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), is likely to provide the greatest benefit.
The dietary predictors of outcome of schizophrenia and prevalence of depression are similar to those that predict illnesses such as coronary heart disease and diabetes, which are more common in people with mental health problems and in which nutritional approaches are widely recommended. Dietary intervention studies are indicated in schizophrenia and depression.
This is the first cross-sectional survey to demonstrate a significant relationship between fish intake and higher self-reported mental health status, therefore offering indirect support for the hypothesis that omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids may act as mood stabilisers.
Both creatine and minocycline should be considered for definitive Phase III trials to determine if they alter the long term progression of Parkinson disease (PD). Additional factors must be weighed before selecting agents for Phase III trials, including safety, tolerability, activity, cost, and availability of these two agents in comparison with other agents currently in development for PD.
Six weeks supplementation with a dose of phylloquinone similar to that obtainable from the diet induced a deterioration of the lipid profile with no improvement in any of the other risk markers analysed. Thus, these results do not support a cardioprotective effect of vitamin K as has been suggested by others.
In postmenopausal women, phylloquinone administration is not associated with changes in insulin secretion and action despite reductions in ucOC concentrations. Changes in ucOC concentrations do not alter glucose metabolism in women. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00062595.
Phylloquinone supplementation slows the progression of CAC in healthy older adults with preexisting CAC, independent of its effect on total MGP concentrations. Because our data are hypothesis-generating, further studies are warranted to clarify this mechanism. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
The presented evidence rules out a clinically important effect of calcium antagonists after ischemic stroke. The large amount of data leads to narrow CIs with no significant heterogeneity, and the overall results are therefore likely to be statistically robust.
In hypertensive type 2 diabetic patients with elevated AER, the ARB losartan, but not sodium restriction, reduced urinary TGF-beta excretion. These data suggest that the renoprotective effects of losartan in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy may include a reduction in renal TGF-beta production.
These data demonstrated that a low-sodium diet potentiates the antihypertensive and antiproteinuric effects of losartan in type 2 diabetes. The blood pressure reduction resulting from the addition of a low-sodium diet to losartan was of similar magnitude to that predicted from the addition of a second antihypertensive agent.
In type 2 diabetic patients with albuminuria but normal levels of serum creatinine, sodium sensitivity of blood pressure appears before hypertension and is related to albuminuria; sodium restriction is one treatment for diabetic nephropath, even without hypertension.
Sodium restriction more effectively reduces blood pressure in the salt sensitive minority of hypertensive type-1 diabetic patients irrespective of renal function. The incidence of salt sensitivity is not increased in hypertensive type-1 diabetic patients compared with essential hypertensive patients.
In patients with type 2 diabetes the risk of diabetic complications was strongly associated with raised blood pressure. Any reduction in blood pressure is likely to reduce the risk of complications, with the lowest risk being in those with systolic blood pressure less than 120 mm Hg.
Urinary albumin excretion is a predictor of all-cause mortality in the general population. The excess risk was more attributable to death from CV causes, independent of the effects of other CV risk factors, and the relationship was already apparent at levels of albuminuria currently considered to be normal.
The results from the trials support the estimates from the observational data in the accompanying two papers. The effect of universal moderate dietary salt reduction on mortality from stroke and ischaemic heart disease would be substantial--larger, indeed, than could be achieved by fully implementing recommended policy for treating high blood pressure with drugs. However, reduction also in the amount of salt added to processed foods would lower blood pressure by at least twice as much and prevent some 75,000 [corrected] deaths a year in Britain as well as much disability.
Adjuvant administration of high-dose ascorbic acid during the first 24 hours after thermal injury significantly reduces resuscitation fluid volume requirements, body weight gain, and wound edema. A reduction in the severity of respiratory dysfunction was also apparent in these patients.
In this large, long-term trial of male physicians, neither vitamin E nor vitamin C supplementation reduced the risk of major cardiovascular events. These data provide no support for the use of these supplements for the prevention of cardiovascular disease in middle-aged and older men.
Data from this large controlled trial suggest that vitamin E and beta-carotene supplementation have no overall effect on the risk of hospital-treated pneumonia in older male smokers, but our subgroup finding that vitamin E seemed to benefit subjects who initiated smoking at a later age warrants further investigation.
Oral vitamin C produces plasma concentrations that are tightly controlled. Only intravenous administration of vitamin C produces high plasma and urine concentrations that might have antitumor activity. Because efficacy of vitamin C treatment cannot be judged from clinical trials that use only oral dosing, the role of vitamin C in cancer treatment should be reevaluated.
There is considerable interobserver variability in the roentgenographic diagnosis of pneumonia. This variability does not improve with increasing experience. Dense lobar or segmental opacities are uniformly recognized as pneumonia while patchy opacities result in a variety of interpretations.
IMN self-administered vaginally at home does not shorten admission to delivery interval despite a significant effect on cervical ripeness assessed using the Bishop score. However, women report positive views on cervical ripening at home, and the setting deserves further investigation.
Although the probability that IMN is cost-effective approaches 0.7 at seemingly low willingness to pay thresholds for an hour prevented from hospital admission to delivery, our results should be viewed in the light of the clinical findings from the IMOP trial.
Daily low-dose, patient-administered PGE2 vaginal suppositories can decrease the gestational length and cost of uncomplicated post-date pregnancies by reducing the time to achieve a favorable cervix, the need for antepartum testing, and, potentially, post-date-related complications.
Women who receive castor oil have an increased likelihood of initiation of labor within 24 hours compared to women who receive no treatment. Castor oil use in pregnancy is underreported worldwide. This small series represents the first attempt to evaluate the medication.
In this pilot sample, 400 mg of mifepristone was effective in inducing cervical changes and labor. Although there were no adverse effects using oral misoprostol in combination with mifepristone, labor was more difficult to induce in the women who did not respond to mifepristone alone, and these women had a higher operative delivery rate.
Labour that is artificially induced does result in lower satisfaction rates as compared to that following spontaneous onset. The longer time delay between the start of the induction and the delivery plays a significant part in this, with the mode of administration of the inducing agent, more vaginal examinations and the increase in caesarean deliveries being perceived as secondary issues. There is a need to improve the information provided to women undergoing labour induction, to counter unrealistic expectations and thereby improve satisfaction.
This study provides important and recent epidemiologic information concerning CRF in children and adolescents: a mean annual incidence of 12.1 new patients per million of the age-related population with a very high proportion (57.6%) of hypodysplastic renal diseases with or without urinary tract malformation. By the age of 20 years, the cumulative probability of end-stage renal disease in the population as a whole was 68%. The probability of kidney survival sharply declined during puberty and early postpuberty. This is the first prospective evaluation of the incidence and outcome of CRF in children, including those with mild and moderate renal impairment.
These cross-sectional findings suggest that in patients with chronic renal disease, dietary protein and energy intakes and serum and anthropometric measures of protein-energy nutritional status progressively decline as the GFR decreases. The reduced protein and energy intakes, as GFR falls, may contribute to the decline in many of the nutritional measures.
Our study supports the concept that proteinuria is an independent risk factor for the progression of renal disease. For patients with proteinuria of more than 1 g/d, we suggest a target blood pressure of less than 92 mm Hg (125/75 mm Hg). For patients with proteinuria of 0.25 to 1.0 g/d, a target mean arterial pressure of less than 98 mm Hg (about 130/80 mm Hg) may be advisable. The extent to which lowering blood pressure reduces proteinuria may be a measure of the effectiveness of this therapy in slowing the progression of renal disease.
More research exists to support the use of massage therapy than therapeutic touch in children. A set of common findings across 2 decades of study suggests that massage therapy may be useful in the care of infants and children. Because massage therapy and therapeutic touch seem to elicit similar parasympathetic effects, therapeutic touch may be useful. There is insufficient evidence, however, to recommend its use in children without qualifications.
Balneotherapy at the Dead Sea area appears to produce a statistically significant substantial improvement in the number of active joints and tender points in both male and female patients with fibromyalgia and psoriatic arthritis. Further research is needed to elucidate the distinction between the benefits of staying at the Dead Sea area without balneotherapy and the effects of balneotherapy in the study population.
The review has shown the effectiveness of the investigated spa therapy and balneotherapy forms. It could be concluded that nearly all forms of spa therapy and balneotherapy used for the treatment of rheumatic diseases in Turkey are effective. A definitive conclusion, however, is not possible because of the heterogeneity of the study designs, methodological flaws, and the publication bias. In future good quality randomized controlled trials are needed.
History of cancer and smoking, psychiatric disorders, negative future perception, moderate to intense depressive symptoms, high trait-anxiety, moderate to intense pain, medium surgery, female gender, ASA category III, up to 12 years of education and more than 12 years of education constituted independent risk factors for preoperative state-anxiety. Previous surgery reduced the risk for preoperative anxiety.
In this study patients experience highest level of anxiety at induction of anaesthetics. The operating theatre environments impact on patients' anxiety are in less degree influenced by the sight and hearing of the technical equipment and the surroundings. Continuous information and opportunity to ask questions reduces patients' anxiety. Results indicate that there is a significant positive relationship between generalised anxiety and depression prior to admission and anxiety experienced during the intraoperative period.
  Anxiety was experienced by the majority of participants but was more prevalent amongst general anaesthesia and female patients. For general anaesthesia patients, a comprehensive level of information may be required a number of weeks prior to surgery and gender differences associated with the preoperative wait may require greater consideration.
The authors' results suggest a meaningful combination of preoperative patient responses from physical and psychological tests yields a valid multifactorial predictive model for postoperative pain and analgesic requirement with significant improvements over individual predictive variables.
This study demonstrates a beneficial effect of zinc administered during acute diarrhea on stool output, diarrheal duration, and proportion of episodes lasting more than 7 days. The effects are large enough to merit routine use of zinc during acute diarrhea in developing countries.
In the management of acute watery diarrhea, zinc plus ORS along with culturally appropriate, site-specific messages in local language does not affect overall ORS use generally and decreases antibiotic/antidiarrheal use; children had good adherence without side effects.
Diarrhea is more effectively treated when caregivers receive education on zinc supplementation and have ready access to supplies of oral rehydration salts and zinc, and this approach does not adversely affect the use of oral rehydration salts; in fact, it greatly increases use of the same.
Compared with vitamin A alone, supplementation with zinc and with zinc and multiple micronutrients, reduced diarrhoea morbidity in stunted rural South African children. Efficacy of zinc supplementation in HIV-infected children needs confirmation in studies that represent the spectrum of disease severity and age groups.
We found that vitamin A and zinc supplementation was associated with distinct parasite-specific health outcomes. Vitamin A plus zinc reduces G. lamblia incidence, whereas zinc supplementation increases A. lumbricoides incidence but decreases E. histolytica-associated diarrhea.
This study showed that the most important predictor for duration of diarrhea in children was the severity of the disease at enrollment, and, not the supplementation. There were clinical beneficial effects of supplementation on rate of any complications and mortality. A larger trial is warranted before supplementation of micronutrients mixed with ORS are recommended for management of acute diarrhea.
These data confirm that zinc supplementation can be useful for treating acute gastroenteritis in children, particularly those from developing countries. However, the role of zinc supplements in treating children with acute gastroenteritis in developed countries needs further evaluation.
Nutrition support of children with advanced HIV infection and prolonged diarrhoea resulted in significant and sustained weight gain, but did not improve CD4 counts or survival. These results support integrated nutrition interventions for HIV-infected children.
In our series, the feeding of a cereal containing Streptococcus thermophilus, Bifidobacterium lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and zinc, reduced the severity and duration of acute gastroenteritis in young children. However, whether this combination is better than either the addition of probiotics or zinc alone is yet to be determined.
Zinc supplementation with a dose as low as 3 mg/d increased plasma zinc concentrations and reduced diarrhea incidence in the study population. There were no observed adverse effects of 10 mg Zn/d on indicators of copper or iron status. The current tolerable upper level of zinc recommended by the Institute of Medicine should be reassessed for young children.
The existing literature provides evidence of a beneficial effect of therapeutic zinc supplementation in the reduction of the duration of acute and persistent diarrhea. However, evidence for its impact on pneumonia, malaria, and tuberculosis in children under 5 years of age is insufficient and needs further evaluation.
Some studies have concluded that Echinacea effectively reduces the symptoms and duration of the common cold. We were unable to replicate such findings. Further studies using different preparations and dosages of E purpurea are necessary to validate previous claims.
This study shows that the herbal remedy is effective and safe. The therapeutic benefit consists of a rapid onset of improvement of cold symptoms. If patients with colds are able to start the application of the herbal remedy as soon as practical after the occurrence of the initial symptoms, the benefit would be expected to increase (e.g. self-medication).
Evidence from published trials suggests that Echinacea may be beneficial for the early treatment of acute URIs. The influence of publication bias on those results is unknown. Echinacea preparations vary widely in composition, and are often found in combination with other potentially active constituents, making specific dose recommendations problematic. There is very little evidence supporting the prolonged use of Echinacea for the prevention of URIs.
The current lack of reporting on the success of blinding provides little evidence that success of blinding is maintained in placebo controlled trials. Trialists and editors should make a concerted effort to incorporate, report, and publish such information and its potential effect on study results.
This meta-analysis suggests that standardized extracts of Echinacea were effective in the prevention of symptoms of the common cold after clinical inoculation, compared with placebo. Further prospective, appropriately powered clinical studies are required to confirm this finding.
AG reduced PPG irrespective of dose and time of administration. No more than 3 g AG was required at any time in relation to the challenge to achieve reductions. Because these reductions included glycemia at the 2-h diagnostic end point, there may be implications for diabetes diagnosis and treatment.
The impact on QOL of a single intervention by a dermatology nurse was marginal for family impact at 4 weeks and was not apparent for other measures, either in the short or longer term. The planned sample size was derived from data in hospital patients but in our population disease activity was milder and the effects on QOL were less. On this account the present study was of low statistical power for some measures. Further studies in larger populations using additional outcome measures are required before advocating the wider introduction of nurse specialists.
By counselling atopic children, even of preschool age, with the easily understandable skin model incorporating the sense of touch, better compliance concerning regular skincare can be achieved. We expect positive effects in the long-term management of atopic eczema.
Dermatology nurses can add to a dermatology consultation and provide effective patient education and support in managing a skin condition. With this added service nurses could help to free up dermatologists' time, thus allowing them to see more new patients. Cost-effectiveness studies are now needed.
Educational programmes for the self management of asthma in children and adolescents improve lung function and feelings of self control, reduce absenteeism from school, number of days with restricted activity, number of visits to an emergency department, and possibly number of disturbed nights. Educational programmes should be considered a part of the routine care of young people with asthma.
A substantial proportion of the US population has symptoms of eczema or eczematous conditions; 31.6 million met the empirical symptom criteria for eczema, and 17.8 million met the empirical criteria for AD. Most cases are not diagnosed by a physician, which indicates that these conditions are undertreated and/or managed with nonprescription remedies.
Distinctive intensity items were found in infants and young children with AD. A strong correlation resulted among the extent, intensity, and subjective symptoms; each of the three parameters was positively correlated with the total SCORAD. Immunologic parameters positively correlated to each of the SCORAD index items, which remains the gold standard for assessing disease severity in clinical trials.
High levels of hygiene at 15 months of age were independently associated with wheeze and atopic eczema reported between 30 and 42 months, and there was an increased risk for children with more severe eczema during this period. The importance of hygiene in public health should not be dismissed; however, the creation of a sterile environment through excessive cleanliness may potentially be harmful to the immune system.
Melatonin exerts neuroprotection due to its antioxidant, antiexcitotoxic and free radical scavenging properties within the central nervous system. Melatonin, thus, as an adjunct, can be a putative neuroprotector in conditions involving oxidative stress like epilepsies.
Ictal discharges produced by pilocarpine or DHPG depended on intact synaptic transmission mediated by AMPA/KA receptors, release of calcium from intracellular stores, and L-type calcium channel activation. The results suggest that muscarinic and group I mGluRs activate a positive-feedback system that creates calcium oscillations and prolonged neuronal synchronization mediated by recurrent excitatory synaptic connections in the CA3 region of the hippocampus.
This clinical observation adds to the growing data showing the antiepileptic effect of melatonin. However, owing to the paucity of well-controlled studies, using melatonin as an AED should be limited to this specific group of patients with intractable seizures.
Afternoon melatonin, morning intermittent bright light, and a gradually advancing sleep schedule advanced circadian rhythms almost 1 h/d and thus produced very little circadian misalignment. This treatment could be used in any situation in which people need to phase advance their circadian clock, such as before eastward jet travel or for delayed sleep phase syndrome.
Individualized treatment based on traditional Chinese medicine plays a role in preventing migraine attacks. Nevertheless, sham acupuncture had similar effects. Major conclusions were limited by the small sample sizes however the observed trends may contribute to design future trials.
The GERAC study design allowed acupuncture to be tested in a naturalistic environment. The rigorous study design and the large number of physician investigators guaranteed a high external validity for the results. The results will help determine the significance of Chinese acupuncture in the context of Western medicine for the treatment of MIG and TTH.
Trigger point inactivation by dry needling is a valuable supplement to the list of migraine prophylactic tools, being equipotent to metoprolol in the influence on frequency and duration (but not severity) of attacks, and superior in terms of negative side-effects.
The treatment protocols for acupuncture and minimal acupuncture in ART Migraine appeared an adequate compromise in the specific situation and for the predefined purposes. However, a relevant minority of participating physicians would have treated patients differently outside the trial.
Due to missing the recruitment target (480 patients) and the high drop-out in the metoprolol group the results must be interpreted with caution. Still, they suggest that acupuncture might be an effective and safe treatment option for patients unwilling or unable to use drug prophylaxis.
Data indicate that repetitive somatosensory stimulation (acupuncture) might positively influence the abnormal cerebrovascular response in migraineurs. In a subgroup of migraineurs, however, the dysfunction of the cerebrovascular system might deteriorate under the treatment.
In the light of these findings, practitioners may face a dilemma when considering the use of acupuncture for migraine. Therefore, large, high quality randomized controlled trials of acupuncture for migraine are needed. Until better quality research is published, with verification of the benefits of acupuncture for migraine, provision of this alternative therapy should not be expanded or withdrawn.
The prevalence of use of natural medicine varies substantially across different types of healing methods. The observed overall acceptance together with the marked need for more information should be used more intensively for the development of health promotion strategies and underpins the necessity of reinforced research activities in this field.
In this epidemiological study, headache patients reported clinically relevant improvements after receiving acupuncture. Randomized trials performed in parallel to this study confirm the relevant overall effect, however, the effect may largely be due to potent unspecific needling and placebo effects.
Overall, the existing evidence suggests that acupuncture has a role in the treatment of recurrent headaches. However, the quality and amount of evidence is not fully convincing. There is urgent need for well-planned, large-scale studies to assess effectiveness and efficiency of acupuncture under real life conditions.
The proportion of subjects with NAR in an adolescent and adult population with rhinitis is around one-fourth. Women have NAR twice as often as men. In general, subjects with NAR have more persistent but equally severe symptoms compared to subjects with AR. However, subjects with AR have more sneezing and itchy eyes within their particular season of allergy compared to subjects with NAR.
Local allergic rhinitis is a prevalent entity in patients evaluated with rhinitis. Persistent and severe symptoms associated with conjunctivitis and/or asthma and polysensitization were likely to be detected in LAR and AR.
We conclude that non-allergic rhinitis is not characterized by increased responsiveness of capsaicin-sensitive nerve fibres; while allergic rhinitis is marked by hyperresponsiveness manifested as increased albumin leakage in nasal fluids. This may reflect the activity of an axonal reflex to sensorineural stimulation.
Administration of high-dose Cr worsened the main clinical symptoms of exercise intolerance in McArdle disease. These neurologic adverse effects represent a major dose-limiting factor in Cr therapy for McArdle disease. Taken together with results of a previous study, the indication for symptomatic therapy with Cr needs to be clarified. An effective Cr dosage without adverse effects may be between 60 and 150 mg/kg daily.
Although oxandrolone did not produce a significant change in the average manual muscle strength score as compared with placebo, the mean change in QMT was significant. Because oxandrolone is safe, accelerates linear growth, and may have some beneficial effect in slowing the progress of weakness, it may be useful before initiating corticosteroid therapy.
Simple one-shot treatment with percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation provided immediate pain relief for low back pain patients. One-shot transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation treatment is recommended due to the rarity of side effects and its convenient application.
Combined NMES/TENS treatment consistently produced greater pain reduction and pain relief than placebo, TENS, or NMES. NMES alone, although less effective, did produce as much pain relief as TENS. Although preliminary, this pattern of results suggests that combined NMES/TENS may be a valuable adjunct in the management of chronic back pain. Further research investigating the effectiveness of both NMES and combined NMES/TENS seems warranted.
This study shows a progressive fall in Oswestry Disability Index and pain visual analog scale scores in patients with low back pain treated with either-interferential therapy or motorized lumbar traction and massage. There was no difference in the improvement between the two groups at the end of treatment. Although there is evidence from several trials that traction alone is ineffective in the management of low back pain, this study could not exclude some effect from the concomitant massage.
Therapies with good evidence of moderate efficacy for chronic or subacute low back pain are cognitive-behavioral therapy, exercise, spinal manipulation, and interdisciplinary rehabilitation. For acute low back pain, the only therapy with good evidence of efficacy is superficial heat.
TENS has proved to be remarkably safe, and provides significant analgesia in about half of patients experiencing moderate predictable pain. Implanted devices can be more effective, but they carry a risk of device failure, implant infection or surgical complication, and are reserved for the more severe intractable chronic pains. The main implanted devices used clinically are the spinal cord stimulator and the deep brain stimulator.
Our study showed that the incidence of FSGS in children with idiopathic nephrotic syndrome has increased recently. Furthermore, in African American children. FSGS is the most common cause of nephrotic syndrome. These findings may have significant implications in the management of childhood nephrotic syndrome.
Our results show that TWG blocks protamine, TNF-alpha, superoxide, and FSGS serum-mediated increase in glomerular albumin permeability in vitro. We conclude that reduction of proteinuria by Tripterygium wilfordii multiglycoside in various kinds of glomerular diseases in vivo might be due to protection of the glomerular filtration barrier.
The results support the safety and potential efficacy of meditative practices for treating certain illnesses, particularly in nonpsychotic mood and anxiety disorders. Clear and reproducible evidence supporting efficacy from large, methodologically sound studies is lacking.
The techniques of mindfulness meditation, with their emphasis on developing detached observation and awareness of the contents of consciousness, may represent a powerful cognitive behavioral coping strategy for transforming the ways in which we respond to life events. They may also have potential for relapse prevention in affective disorders.
These findings suggest the SAICA is an effective way to assess adaptive functioning. Moreover, its ability to discriminate ADHD from control children and its association with psychiatric comorbidity indicate the SAICA measures adaptive functioning within a range relevant for studies of psychopathology.
One third of obese children and adolescents have the IRS; however type 2 diabetes is rare. Obese children with the IRS may form a high risk group to whom scarce intervention resources should be targeted. Further work is needed to develop appropriate screening programmes for IRS components in significantly obese children.
These results underscore the need for future studies to carefully assess children diagnosed as having attention deficit disorder with hyperactivity for concurrent psychiatric disorders as well as family and psychosocial stressors that may contribute to childhood symptoms. Such information is essential because different subtypes of attention deficit disorder with comorbid disorders may arise from different etiologic pathways, may require varying treatment options, and may foreshadow different eventual outcomes.
For ADHD symptoms, our carefully crafted medication management was superior to behavioral treatment and to routine community care that included medication. Our combined treatment did not yield significantly greater benefits than medication management for core ADHD symptoms, but may have provided modest advantages for non-ADHD symptom and positive functioning outcomes.
These results suggest that yoga may have ancillary benefits in terms of improved physical function, enhanced mental/emotional state, enriched sleep quality, and improved lifestyle choices, and may be useful as a health promotion strategy in the prevention and management of chronic disease.
Our study demonstrated psychosocial benefits from a program of adapted yoga (vs usual care) for ICD recipients. These data support continued research to better understand the role of complementary medicine to address ICD-specific stress in cardiac outcomes.
Based on the results of this review, weak recommendations can be made for the ancillary use of yoga for patients with coronary heart disease, heart failure, and cardiac dysrhythmia at this point.
Elderly patients with COPD participated safely in a 12-week yoga program especially designed for patients with this chronic illness. After the program, the subjects tolerated more activity with less DD and improved their functional performance. These findings need to be confirmed in a larger, more sufficiently powered efficacy study.
Preliminary data suggest that a yoga intervention for VA patients with chronic back pain may improve the health of veterans. However, the limitations of a pre-post study design make conclusions tentative. A larger randomized, controlled trial of the yoga program is planned.
Collectively, these studies suggest that yoga may reduce many IRS-related risk factors for CVD, may improve clinical outcomes, and may aid in the management of CVD and other IRS-related conditions. However, the methodologic and other limitations characterizing most of these studies preclude drawing firm conclusions. Additional high quality RCTs are needed to confirm and further elucidate the effects of standardized yoga programs on specific indices of CVD risk and related clinical endpoints.
There were no relative improvements of cognitive function among healthy seniors in the yoga or exercise group compared to the wait-list control group. Those in the yoga group showed significant improvement in quality-of-life and physical measures compared to exercise and wait-list control groups.
In 1998 an estimated 15.0 million American adults had used yoga at least once in their lifetime and 7.4 million during the previous year. Yoga was used for both wellness and specific health conditions often with perceived helpfulness and without expenditure.
Both African dance and Hatha yoga reduced perceived stress and negative affect. Cortisol increased in African dance and decreased in Hatha yoga. Therefore, even when these interventions produce similar positive psychological effects, the effects may be very different on physiological stress processes. One factor that may have particular salience is that amount of physiological arousal produced by the intervention.
Randomized trial data from a large population of healthy men indicate no overall benefit or harm of 12 years of beta carotene supplementation on cataract or cataract extraction. However, among current smokers at baseline, beta carotene appeared to attenuate their excess risk of cataract by about one fourth.
Vitamin E given for 4 years at a dose of 500 IU daily did not reduce the incidence of or progression of nuclear, cortical, or posterior subcapsular cataracts. These findings do not support the use of vitamin E to prevent the development or to slow the progression of age-related cataracts.
The study supports the association of lower socioeconomic status with lens changes, including nuclear and cortical lens opacities. The findings also suggest that regular users of nutritional supplements have a one-fourth lower risk of lens changes and particularly, of cortical opacities; a result seen at ages under 70 years. The associations with potentially modifiable factors indicate the need for further evaluations, given the high prevalence of lens opacities.
Findings from the two trials suggest that vitamin/mineral supplements may decrease the risk of nuclear cataract. Additional research is needed in less nutritionally deprived populations before these findings can be translated into general nutritional recommendations.
These data add to a body of evidence suggesting lower risk for cataract among users of vitamin supplements and stronger associations with long-term use. However, the specific nutrients that are responsible cannot be ascertained at this time, and unmeasured lifestyle differences between supplement users and nonusers may explain these results. Arch Ophthalmol. 2000;118:1556-1563
Visual function in patients with age-related cataracts who received the lutein supplements improved, suggesting that a higher intake of lutein, through lutein-rich fruit and vegetables or supplements, may have beneficial effects on the visual performance of people with age-related cataracts.
Lutein and zeaxanthin may decrease the risk of cataracts severe enough to require extraction, although this relation appears modest in magnitude. The present findings add support for recommendations to consume vegetables and fruit high in carotenoids daily.
Long-term use of multivitamins, B group and vitamin A supplements was associated with reduced prevalence of either nuclear or cortical cataract. A strong protective influence on cortical cataract, from use of folate or vitamin B12 supplements, is a new finding.
Lens opacities were associated with lower levels of riboflavin, vitamin E, iron, and protein nutritional status. Higher levels of uric acid increased risk of mixed opacities. The findings for riboflavin, vitamin E, iron, and uric acid are compatible with the dietary intake and medical history results of the Lens Opacities Case-Control Study.
In regular users of multivitamin supplements, the risk of nuclear opacification was reduced by one third; in regular users of vitamin E supplements and persons with higher plasma levels of vitamin E, the risk was reduced by approximately half. These results are similar to those obtained in our earlier case-control study. Because these data are based on observational studies only, the results are suggestive but inconclusive. The possible effect of nutritional supplements on the lens requires confirmation by ongoing clinical trials.
The expected increase in the prevalence of cataract with the aging of the population highlights the need to plan appropriate medical services and public health interventions for primary and secondary prevention. Many of the identified risk factors for cataract in the population have the potential for being modified through public health interventions.
This report demonstrates the feasibility of collecting comprehensive dietary supplement use data in large studies. These data may aid in the design of supplement use questionnaires, which could help to prevent misclassification error in epidemiologic studies of diet and disease.
Overall, intramuscular injection of bovine eNOS plasmid induced therapeutic angiogenesis in a rat ischemic hindlimb model, a potential therapy for peripheral arterial disease. The stimulation of angiogenesis by NO might be due to upregulation of local VEGF expression.
Based on meta-analyses of RCTs and observational studies, HCSE appears to be an effective and safe treatment for CVI. Further RCTs and carefully conducted large-scale observational studies are required to evaluate the long-term effectiveness and safety of HCSE in routine settings.
This study confirms that COPD in primary care is a heterogeneous condition. Some patients do not fulfil the proposed diagnostic criteria with FEV(1) of >/=80% predicted but they may nevertheless have airflow obstruction. Bronchiectasis is common in this group of patients, as is unsuspected malignancy. These findings should be considered when developing recommendations for the investigation and management of COPD in the community.
Antioxidant vitamin supplementation during IFN-alpha-2b and ribavirin therapy prevented a decrease in EPA of mononuclear cell phospholipids. If a further decrease in the ratio of arachidonic acid to EPA can be achieved by using oral EPA supplementation, the efficacy of IFN-alpha-2b and ribavirin therapy may be improved.
Metformin treatment is better than a prescriptive diet or vitamin E in the therapy of NAFLD patients receiving nutritional counseling. Limited histological data support an association between improved aminotransferases and biopsy findings, which require confirmation in a double-blind trial with appropriate statistical power based on liver histology.
Vitamin E plus C combination treatment is a safe, inexpensive and effective treatment option in patients with fatty liver disease, with results comparable to those obtained with ursodeoxycholic acid. Since more effective new therapeutic options are lacking, patients with fatty liver disease should be encouraged to take vitamin E and C supplements, which are safe and affordable.
Our data suggest that the measurement of the level of plasma transforming growth factor-beta1 represents a possible method of distinguishing between non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and non-alcoholic fatty liver. Long-term alpha-tocopherol treatment may be safe and effective for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. A randomized, controlled, double-blind trial is needed to confirm the full potential of alpha-tocopherol in the management of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis.
These preliminary data suggest that an effective antioxidant supplementation is able to improve the hemorrheology in alcoholics either by directly affecting the ethanol-related lipoperoxidation and xanthine oxidase system activation and/or by modifying red blood cell membrane characteristics.
These data suggest that multi antioxidative treatment in chronic HCV patients is well tolerated and may have a beneficial effect on necro-inflammatory variables. A combination of antiviral and antioxidative therapies may enhance the overall response rate of these patients.
The addition of clinical notes to the adjudication of radiographic fracture healing changed the outcome decision in a substantial number of cases. Orthopedic trialists should consider the addition of clinical notes to adjudication material in studies of fracture healing in order to enhance the generalizability of their results.
Our preliminary observations report for the first time in double-blind fashion the efficacy of DHEA augmentation in the management of negative, depressive, and anxiety symptoms of schizophrenia. The findings from this study raise important issues regarding the role of neurosteroids in general, and DHEA in particular, in the ongoing symptomatology and pharmacotherapy of schizophrenia.
Trial data implicate that a better compliance can be achieved by favouring atypical drugs rather than conventional alternatives in the treatment of schizophrenia. However, this effect is found only when groups treated with the atypical antipsychotic clozapine are included in the analysis. Our study did not find evidence for a statistically significant superiority in acceptability of novel atypical drugs when compared to conventional antipsychotics.
The findings are important in 2 respects. First, agomelatine is an effective and safe antidepressant continuation therapy, which confirms efficacy seen in short-term studies. Second, few early relapses were observed in the patient group switched to placebo: the survival curve for placebo separated gradually from that of patients taking agomelatine. We suggest this reflects solely the underlying properties of the illness, which is only possible due to the lack of discontinuation syndrome after agomelatine withdrawal. It underlines the novel clinical profile of agomelatine, which quite likely reflects its innovative pharmacology.
A structured method for quantitatively dealing with drug dose in comparative effectiveness reviews is described, with application to the second-generation antidepressants. Dose-dependent reductions in HAM-D scores were identified, although differences did not translate into better response rates for higher doses. Dose equivalency was not a significant factor among comparative studies in second-generation antidepressants.
The favorable effect of agomelatine on the relative amplitude of the circadian rest-activity/sleep-wake cycle in depressed patients at week 1 reflects early improvement in sleep and daytime functioning. Higher efficacy results were observed with agomelatine as compared to sertraline on both depressive and anxiety symptoms over the 6-week treatment period, together with a good tolerability profile. These findings indicate that agomelatine offers promising benefits for MDD patients.
Light treatment showed earlier response onset and lower rate of some adverse events relative to fluoxetine, but there were no other significant differences in outcome between light therapy and antidepressant medication. Although limited by lack of a double-placebo condition, this study supports the effectiveness and tolerability of both treatments for seasonal affective disorder and suggests that other clinical factors, including patient preference, should guide selection of first-line treatment.
The pattern of winter depressions and summer remissions remained fairly persistent over time in this group of patients. The temporal distribution of depressive episodes both within and across individual patients was consistent with the results of several recent follow-up studies of seasonal affective disorder, providing support for the predictive and construct validity of the Rosenthal et al. diagnosis of winter seasonal affective disorder. Light treatment, while remaining a safe and satisfactory treatment for many, may be insufficient for more severely ill patients. The appearance of nonseasonal depressions in patients with winter seasonal affective disorder may be associated with greater severity of illness and less responsiveness to light treatment.
The efficient way to lower the repeat cesarean rate is trial of labor, and the way to reduce the number of primary cesareans is in practicing of the guidelines for various indications. The cesarean surveillance system can solidify these guidelines, leading to a lower cesarean rate and an avoidance of inappropriate indications.
Cesarean section rates are greater for the higher-order births because of the practice "once a cesarean section, always a cesarean section". Against the background of a rapidly declining fertility rate, females play a more important role in the mode of delivery than ever before. As such, financial incentives designed specifically for obstetricians do not have the desired impact. Policies that are aimed at altering behavior should be designed within the social context.
With careful implementation and attention to women's individual differences as in Ohio, outcomes for pregnant women may improve with Medicaid managed care implementation. Quality monitoring should continue as Medicaid managed care becomes more widespread. More research is needed to identify the types of health maintenance organization activities that lead to improved outcomes.
The strategy of self-evaluation of obstetricians by delivery data of each obstetrician could significantly reduce the cesarean section rate (P<0.001). If the strategy is implemented in larger areas of Thailand, a large number of unnecessary cesarean sections as well as maternal morbidity could be avoided, resulting in saving a lot of national expense and also improving the standard of care in obstetrics.
Although some pathways did reduce LOS or resource utilization or both, most pathways reduced neither. Because substantial resources must be expended on pathway development, implementation, and maintenance, future efforts should be placed on further evaluating the effectiveness of critical pathways and understanding the reasons behind their success or failure before additional resources are consumed for this management strategy.
Our data showed that, irrespective of the local situation and of the risks of litigation, a significant reduction of cesarean sections can be achieved in a tertiary care center without detrimental effects on newborns, especially in a teaching hospital where residents are trained. Despite national trends suggesting the contrary, some women may choose to deliver in an obstetrics department with better care and fewer operative procedures than in hospitals with higher cesarean delivery rates.
The high rates of cesarean sections in China are surprising given the lack of the factors that usually lead to cesarean sections. The increasing cesarean section rates may be an early indication that emerging forms of health insurance and fee-for-service payments to physicians will lead to an excessive emphasis on costly, high-technology medical care in China.
Policies on healthcare financing can influence maternity care management and outcomes in unforeseen ways. The prevailing business ethos in health care encourages such pragmatism among those doctors who do not have a moral objection to non-medical caesarean section.
Cesarean section rates are approaching stability in the four countries and have declined in Sweden. Previous cesarean delivery and dystocia may be the major sources of future reductions in the U.S. cesarean rate. The Swedish example shows that it is possible to reduce a relatively low national cesarean section rate.
A significant proportion of women changed their preferred mode of delivery after their first childbirth. Apart from reducing the number of cesarean sections in nulliparous women, prompt provision of education to women who had complications and investigations into fear factors during vaginal birth might help in reducing women's wish to change to elective cesarean section.
Although the evidence for one-to-one care and external cephalic version came from both developed and developing settings, the systematic review for vaginal birth after a cesarean was restricted to studies conducted in the United States. The effective implementation of the preceding strategies to reduce cesarean rates may depend on the social and cultural milieu and on associated beliefs and practices.
Short-term psychotherapeutic interventions for somatizing patients in general hospitals have a moderately better effect on motivation for psychotherapy and contacting a psychotherapist than psychoeducational reading material alone. Future studies should attempt to prove the effectiveness of short-term psychoeducational interventions for somatizing patients in the general hospital.
Adults presenting functional neurological and abdominal symptoms are characterized by history of abuse. The current focus on childhood sexual abuse should be broadened to include sexual, and particularly physical, abuse in adulthood as well as childhood. The intervening processes that link abuse to somatization remain to be identified but are unlikely to include adult emotional and social disturbance or general illness-orientation.
In patients with functional dyspepsia, resting cerebral glycometabolism differs significantly from that of healthy subjects. The ACC, insula, thalamus, MCC, and cerebellum might be the key regions that determine the severity of symptoms.
based on our review a classification of DME was developed that may prove useful in making the appropriate treatment decision; the new laser and pharmacological treatments currently investigated are promising and need to be confirmed by large, controlled clinical trials.
No protective effect was observed between antioxidant nutrients and DR. Depending on insulin use, there appeared to be a potential for deleterious effects of nutrient antioxidants. Further research is needed to confirm associations of nutrient antioxidant intake and DR.
Both interventions were locally feasible. Group interpersonal psychotherapy was effective for depression symptoms among adolescent girls affected by war and displacement. Other interventions should be investigated to assist adolescent boys in this population who have symptoms of depression.
Posttraumatic stress disorder is more prevalent than previously believed, and is often persistent. Progress in estimating age-at-onset distributions, cohort effects, and the conditional probabilities of PTSD from different types of trauma will require future epidemiologic studies to assess PTSD for all lifetime traumas rather than for only a small number of retrospectively reported "most serious" traumas.
This study shows that GOS/FOS supplementation induces a beneficial antibody profile. GOS/FOS reduces the total Ig response and modulates the immune response towards CMP, while leaving the response to vaccination intact. This suggests that oral GOS/FOS supplementation is a safe method to restrain the atopic march.
Infants fed formula supplemented with a prebiotic mixture achieved normal growth and stool characteristics more similar to those of breast-fed infants in comparison with infants fed an unsupplemented formula. A pediatrician needs to consider the risk of possible intolerance against the benefits of prebiotics.
The addition of the prebiotic GOS/FOS mixture to an infant formula has a stimulating effect on the growth of bifidobacteria and on the metabolic activity of the total intestinal flora. The changes in short chain fatty acids, lactate and pH in the prebiotic group represent a fermentation profile that is closer to that observed in breast-fed infants compared to infants fed control formula.
Infant formulae appear to be clinically safe and effective on infant microbiota. They minimize the alteration of faecal microbiota after cessation of breast-feeding and promote bifidobacteria proportions, with a stronger effect when acidic oligosaccharides are present.
These data indicate that supplementation of a term infant's formula with a mixture of galacto- and fructooligosaccharides has a dose-dependent stimulating effect on the growth of Bifidobacteria and Lactobacilli in the intestine and results in softer stool with increasing dosage of supplementation.
The synbiotic preparation colonized quickly after 3 days of administration and the infants stayed colonized for several months after therapy was stopped. There was an increase in bacterial diversity and gram-positive organisms and a reduction of gram-negative bacterial load in the treatment group. Because a combination preparation was used, it is difficult to specifically attribute the colonization to either the probiotic or prebiotic component in this study. Larger efficacy trials are warranted to examine the mechanism of action and precise effects of these supplements.
GOS/lcFOS supplementation has a bifidogenic effect on maternal gut microbiota that is not transferred to neonates. The increased maternal bifidobacteria did not affect fetal immunity as measured by a comprehensive examination of cord blood immunity variables.
Our data support the hypothesis that nucleotide supplementation improves the composition of the gut microbiota in formula-fed infants. Because this effect could contribute to previously described benefits of nucleotide supplementation for gastrointestinal tract and immune function, these findings have important implications for optimizing the diet of formula-fed infants.
Glutamine-enriched enteral nutrition in very low-birth-weight infants decreased the incidence of atopic dermatitis during the first year of life but had no effect on the incidence of bronchial hyperreactivity and infectious diseases during the first year of life.
Asthmatic heredity, predisposition to early life atopy, plus early passive smoke exposure and recurrent chest infections are important influences for the occurrence of wheeze and asthma at 10 years of age. BHR at 10 years of age has a narrower risk profile, suggesting that factors influencing wheezing symptom expression may differ from those predisposing the patient to BHR.
Prematurity is a risk factor for asthma reported at 6 years. A high ratio of head circumference to birth weight is a risk factor for any atopic disorder. Vacuum extraction was associated with a higher risk of allergy, and induced labour is a risk factor for inhalant allergy. All results should be viewed with the possibility of residual confounding.
The probiotic drug E coli Nissle 1917 shows efficacy and safety in maintaining remission equivalent to the gold standard mesalazine in patients with ulcerative colitis. The effectiveness of probiotic treatment further underlines the pathogenetic significance of the enteric flora.
In this small randomised placebo-controlled trial no significant clinical benefit of Probio-Tec AB-25 could be demonstrated in comparison with placebo for maintaining remission in patients with left-sided ulcerative colitis. A difference may be achieved in larger studies, but the clinical significance of this would be questionable. This study was registered in ClinicalTrial.gov (
These results show that this probiotic preparation is able to colonize the intestine, and suggest that it may be useful in maintaining the remission in ulcerative colitis patients intolerant or allergic to 5-ASA. Controlled trials are warranted to confirm these preliminary results.
L GG does not prevent colitis in gnotobiotic TG rats or treat established disease in SPF rats, but is superior to LP 299v in the prevention of recurrent colitis. These studies suggest that antibiotics and probiotic agents provide synergistic therapeutic effects, perhaps mediated by altered immunomodulation with selective activity of different lactobacillus species.
In the neonatal period, IL-10 gene-deficient mice have decreased levels of colonic Lactobacillus sp. and an increase in colonic mucosal adherent and translocated bacteria. Normalizing Lactobacillus sp. levels reduced colonic mucosal adherent and translocated bacteria and prevented colitis.
In this survey population, self-reported back and neck problems accounted for a large proportion of health care expenditures. These spine-related expenditures have increased substantially from 1997 to 2005, without evidence of corresponding improvement in self-assessed health status.
A treatment effect has not been demonstrated, but some patients who would otherwise have reported mild pain were pain free after 1 year. This approach to treating back pain has not been shown to be effective. More much larger studies, with more intensive treatment, are required in order to decide whether physical therapy in primary care is beneficial as treatment for acute back pain.
The study showed that adding continuous US to a semi supervised exercise program significantly improved function, lumbar ROM and endurance time. Further studies including a third group of only exercise and no US can establish the possible effects of placebo US.
The observed effect is presumably overestimated. In the low PD group, there were more people out of work, and fewer took analgesic drugs. No conclusive judgement is possible. The concept of the PD-dependent effect of US must be evaluated in trials with greater sample sizes.
The subgroup analysis suggests better results of manual therapy compared to physiotherapy in chronic patients (duration of present complaints of 1 yr or longer) and in patients younger than 40 yr old). Differences for other subgroups were less clear. The explorative findings of these subgroup analyses have to be investigated in future research.
A large number of athletes required physiotherapy services during the Games. Approximately one quarter of the athletes were injured before the competition started. The main pathologies were spine-related injuries, tendinopathy and muscle strain. The most frequently utilized procedures were kinesiotherapy, ultrasound and cryotherapy.
This study provides descriptive data from the therapists' perspective about LBP management and shows that the treatments most commonly used are different from those treatments commonly used in developed countries. The potential reasons for this are explored in this paper and recommendations are made for further research.
This study showed that traction, ultrasound, and LPL therapies were all effective in the treatment of this group of patients with acute LDH. These results suggest that conservative measures such as traction, laser, and ultrasound treatments might have an important role in the treatment of acute LDH.
As yet, there seems to be little evidence to support the use of ultrasound therapy in the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders. The large majority of 13 randomized placebo-controlled trials with adequate methods did not support the existence of clinically important or statistically significant differences in favour of ultrasound therapy. Nevertheless, our findings for lateral epicondylitis may warrant further investigation.
Further research, with larger numbers of subjects, and an appropriate control is required to establish the benefits of Snoezelen for people at different stages of dementia, and to identify any benefits additional to those derived from increased staff attention.
Pacing of activity must be guided by interventions that facilitate optimum sensoristasis and often need to be adjusted during stress, environmental change, and progression of the illness. Interventions can ameliorate some of the negative consequences of imbalances in sensoristasis when optimal pacing is not attained.
The mental development index scores of the zinc-treated group were slightly but significantly lower than those of the placebo group. This finding may have been due to micronutrient imbalance. Caution should be exercised when supplementing undernourished infants with a single micronutrient.
In conclusion, zinc supplementation, given along with selected vitamins, was associated with significantly greater activity levels in children. The relationship between the activity increase and locomotor development needs to be investigated, as do the long-term implications of zinc supplementation in terms of developmental status and school performance.
The findings confirm the essentiality of zinc for growth of children, and show, for the first time, the essentiality of zinc for neuropsychological functions of children. In addition, the need for repletion of other potentially limiting nutrients in studies examining the effects of specific nutrients on growth and neuropsychological functions was confirmed.
Interventions to improve children's zinc nutriture should be considered in populations at risk of zinc deficiency, especially where there are elevated rates of underweight or stunting. The population mean serum zinc concentration is a useful indicator of the successful delivery and absorption of zinc supplements in children.
The data demonstrate an anticatabolic effect of nutritional supplements combined with dietary counselling in HIV-infected subjects. They suggest that diminished whole body protein catabolism resulted in a change of body composition (increased lean mass, decreased fat mass).
All patients increased their body mass index and triceps skinfold thickness due to food supplementation and diet counseling. Oral OKG failed to improve nutritional, functional, or immunologic status in these weight-losing HIV(+) patients and had important gastrointestinal side effects.
A whey protein supplement did not increase weight or lean body mass in HIV-positive subjects who were eating adequately, but it did increase CD4 cell counts. The control supplement with rapidly assimilable carbohydrate substituted for protein increased cardiovascular disease risk factors. Careful dietary and weight history should be obtained before starting nutritional supplements in subjects with stable weight loss and good viral control.
Even though apoptosis did not change in HIV(+) subjects, ingestion of polyphenol-rich fruit juices might be favorable to HIV(+) patients due to enhanced proliferation, which could restore disturbances in T-cell homeostasis. In healthy controls, increased lymphocyte proliferation during juice consumption was counterbalanced by increased apoptosis.
A CF is well tolerated and results in increased weight gain compared with SF. Until the HIV status of an infant is reliably determined, early introduction of a CF in HIV-exposed children may have beneficial effects on growth. The role of early nutritional intervention remains to be determined for individuals living in countries with endemic malnutrition for whom formula feeding is a viable option.
Supplementation with omega-3 fatty acids in combination with dietary and exercise counseling was well tolerated and reduced fasting triglyceride levels in patients receiving antiretrovirals. To what extent the increase in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels observed in patients assigned this intervention is attributable to omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and whether this increase attenuates any benefit in lowering triglyceride levels is unclear. Given these results, further investigation of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia in HIV-infected patients is warranted.
Alterations in body fat distribution are a characteristic feature in HIV infection. The occurrence of increased visceral fat content and decreased subcutaneous fat content preceded the era of combination antiretroviral therapy. The alteration in fat distribution may be affected by plasma HIV RNA content rather than antiretroviral or protease-inhibitor therapy. The body composition alterations might be associated with endogenous hypercortisolism.
Our findings have public health implications, and suggest that improvements are needed in labelling and quality assurance procedures for products containing probiotic organisms. The presence of the potential pathogen Enterococcus faecium (intentionally or as a contaminant) in some products calls for a review of the value of this species as a probiotic.
Our findings suggest that the changes in the mucosal flora in IBD are not secondary to inflammation, but a result of a specific host response. We hypothesize that the healthy mucosa is capable of holding back fecal bacteria and that this function is profoundly disturbed in patients with IBD.
Impairment of semantic memory is a feature of both vascular dementia and DAT. Tests of semantic memory appear, therefore, of little value in differentiating between these two major causes of dementia. Further work is required to determine whether the nature of the processing deficit is the same in these conditions.
The study confirmed some previously reported risk factors for VaD, such as history of heart disease. Higher levels of education seemed to lower the risk or delay onset of symptoms of VaD. Use of aspirin may be a predictor of survival rather than a risk factor. The occupational associations, particularly with pesticides and fertilizers, need further study.
Patients with IVD showed a relatively more severe dysfunction of the frontal lobes as demonstrated by single-photon emission CT and expressed in specific psychiatric and neuropsychological changes than AD patients matched for age, sex, and severity of dementia.
Patients with vascular dementia have more severe behavioral retardation, depression, and anxiety than those with Alzheimer's disease when the groups have similar levels of cognitive impairment. This probably reflects the contrasting brain regions typically involved in the two disorders.
Prevalence of dementia among the Hisayama residents was relatively identical to that previously reported, but vascular dementia was more predominant. Risk factors for vascular dementia were similar to those for lacunar infarcts. Control of hypertension may be a key to reducing dementia among the Japanese population.
Using physical agents before isokinetic exercises in women with knee osteoarthritis leads to augmented exercise performance, reduced pain, and improved function. Hot pack with a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator or short-wave diathermy has the best outcome.
Glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate alone or in combination did not reduce pain effectively in the overall group of patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. Exploratory analyses suggest that the combination of glucosamine and chondroitin sulfate may be effective in the subgroup of patients with moderate-to-severe knee pain. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Disagreements were common and often larger than the effect of commonly used treatments. Meta-analyses using SMDs are prone to observer variation and should be interpreted with caution. The reliability of meta-analyses might be improved by having more detailed review protocols, more than one observer, and statistical expertise.
T1G has good clinical effect as a treatment intervention for IGT, as it could improve glycometabolism, significantly depress the levels of post-prandial blood sugar and blood lipids, alleviate clinical symptoms of patients, and effectively cut-off and reverse the yielding and development of diabetes mellitus.
Progression rates to impaired glucose regulation using the current World Health Organization classification criteria were calculated for the first time in a large European population-based study. The progression rates to diabetes show the same pattern as seen in the few similar European studies.
Currently, no single agent can be definitively recommended for diabetes prevention. Future studies should be designed with diabetes incidence as the primary outcome and should be of sufficient duration to differentiate between genuine diabetes prevention as opposed to simple delay or masking of this condition.
The results of this preliminary investigation were unexpected but important in view of the increased use of probiotic preparations in medically fragile pediatric patients. In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, L. rhamnosus strain GG was not shown to be effective in reducing the incidence of nosocomial infections. In fact, a statistically nonsignificant trend toward an increase in infection was seen (four vs. 11). Further studies with a larger patient population are needed to establish both safety and efficacy of probiotics in pediatric critical care.
Apart from an increase in enterococci no significant differences in microbial composition and metabolic activity were observed in the probiotic compared with the placebo group. However, changes over time were present in both groups, which differed significantly between the probiotic and the placebo arm, suggesting that the amoxycillin effect was modulated by probiotic intake. Moreover, the intake of a multispecies probiotic significantly reduced diarrhea-like bowel movements in healthy volunteers receiving amoxycillin.
Child care infants fed a formula supplemented with L reuteri or B lactis had fewer and shorter episodes of diarrhea, with no effect on respiratory illnesses. These effects were more prominent with L reuteri, which was also the only supplement to improve additional morbidity parameters.
Inter-rater agreement varied across domains of the risk of bias tool. Generally, agreement was poorer for those items that required more judgment. There was low correlation between assessments of overall risk of bias and two common approaches to quality assessment: the Jadad scale and Schulz approach to allocation concealment. Overall risk of bias as assessed by the risk of bias tool differentiated effect estimates, with more conservative estimates for studies at low risk.
Even in what would be considered methodologically sound clinical trials, definitions of diarrhea, primary outcomes, and instruments employed in RCTs of pediatric acute diarrhea are heterogeneous, lack evidence of validity, and focus on indices that may not be important to participants.
Physicians and acupuncture specialists will benefit from the advice and support of a project group consisting of experienced clinicians, researchers, and statisticians when designing and preparing clinical trials on acupuncture and other complementary and alternative therapies.
Using a pain drawing based definition with case ascertainment restricted to an area in and around the shoulder complex is recommended for surveys assessing the occurrence of shoulder symptoms in the general population. To solve the problem of the poor specificity associated with symptom based definitions it is useful to incorporate an additional classification to restrict the definition to more disabling problems.
There is little evidence to support or refute the efficacy of common interventions for shoulder pain. As well as the need for further well designed clinical trials, more research is needed to establish a uniform method of defining shoulder disorders and developing outcome measures which are valid, reliable, and responsive in affected people.
The practices of acupuncture and Chinese herbal medicine are not risk-free and fatalities have occurred. Variation in adverse event rates between medical and nonmedical practitioners may reflect differences in relevant education or different reporting behaviors. These data represent the first step in the evaluation of adverse event rates in traditional Chinese medicine. Arch Fam Med. 2000;9:1071-1078
The dearth of available evidence highlights the need for more rigorous scientific validation to identify the most accurate methods of diagnosing IBS. Until such time, the diagnostic algorithm presented herein could inform decision making for a range of providers caring for primary care patients with abdominal discomfort or pain and altered bowel function suggestive of IBS.
Female patients report higher levels of a variety of intestinal and nonintestinal sensory symptoms despite similar levels of IBS severity, abdominal pain, psychological symptoms, and illness impact. The apparent differences in sensitivity to nonpainful visceral sensations, medications, and food may represent altered sensory processes, autonomic responses, and/or cognitive hypervigilance.
European general practitioners and gastroenterologists have produced recommendations that emphasize education of the patient, a positive symptom-based diagnosis, diet and lifestyle advice, psychological support and a critical analysis of current specific psychological and pharmacological treatments.
A second cup-of-coffee equivalent dose of caffeine only reliably affected cognitive performance and mood after an 8-h interval between doses, but not after shorter intervals (when caffeine had some adverse effects). These results show that, apart from caffeine consumption soon after waking, the daily pattern of caffeine intake of many typical caffeine consumers is not well explained by the short-term psychostimulant effects of caffeine.
After overnight caffeine abstinence, caffeine can significantly affect cognitive performance, mood and thirst at doses within and even lower than the range of amounts of caffeine contained in a single serving of popular caffeine-containing drinks. Regular caffeine consumers appear to show substantial tolerance to the thirst-increasing but not to the performance and mood effects of caffeine.
Much progress has been made toward understanding the mechanisms contributing to ongoing brain injury after intrapartum hypoxia-ischemia. This should facilitate more specific pharmacologic intervention strategies that might provide neuroprotection during the reperfusion phase of injury.
A diagnosis of NEC in the very low birth weight infant imposes a significant additional financial burden to the individual patient as well as the neonatal community as a whole. This expense justifies additional research into preventive measures and potentially costly therapies aimed at reducing the incidence of NEC. These data also provide an estimated cost to compare the cost effectiveness of new preventive measures for NEC.
Early-onset sepsis remains an uncommon but potentially lethal problem among very-low-birth-weight infants. The change in pathogens over time from predominantly gram-positive to predominantly gram-negative requires confirmation by ongoing surveillance.
The observed control group bias indicates that the constancy assumption does not hold in recent antipsychotic medication trials. These results suggest that caution is indicated when considering active- or low dose-controlled studies requiring comparisons with external placebo as alternatives to placebo-controlled trials for establishing efficacy of new medications for schizophrenia.
Patients' serum 25(OH)D concentrations reached twice the top of the physiologic range without eliciting hypercalcemia or hypercalciuria. The data support the feasibility of pharmacologic doses of vitamin D3 for clinical research, and they provide objective evidence that vitamin D intake beyond the current upper limit is safe by a large margin.
Mycophenolate mofetil or azathioprine demonstrate similar efficacy during treatment of bullous pemphigoid, and similar cumulative corticosteroid doses were given in both treatment arms to control disease. However, mycophenolate mofetil showed a significantly lower liver toxicity profile than azathioprine therapy.
There is inadequate evidence for a recommendation of a specific treatment for bullous pemphigoid, and there is a need for larger randomized controlled trials with adequate power. Starting doses of prednisolone greater than 0.75 mg/kg per day do not seem to give additional benefit, and it seems that lower doses may be adequate for disease control. The effectiveness of the addition of plasma exchange or azathioprine to corticosteroids has not been established. Combination treatment with tetracycline and niacinamide seems useful, although this needs further validation.
The study's finding that vitamin E is effective in treating TD agrees with results from prior studies and provides evidence that the effect may extend to treatment of up to 36 weeks. These findings are in direct contrast to those of VA Cooperative Study #394, a much larger, long-term, multi-site study, conducted by many of the same investigators, in which Vitamin E was not superior to placebo.
The results of this clinical trial were clear-cut and consistent across all primary and secondary efficacy variables. Comfrey root extract showed a remarkably potent and clinically relevant effect in reducing acute back pain. For the first time a fast-acting effect of the ointment (1 h) was also witnessed.
Our results show that 8-sessions of acupoint stimulation followed by acupressure with aromatic lavender oil were an effective method for short-term LBP relief. No adverse effects were reported. To complement mainstream medical treatment for sub-acute LBP, the combined therapy of acupoint stimulation followed by acupressure with aromatic lavender oil may be one of the choices as an add-on therapy for short-term reduction of LBP.
A highly significant clinical efficacy was achieved with a monotherapy of Harpagophytum dry extract LI 174 after four weeks' treatment at a dosage of 2x480 mg/day in cases of slight to moderate muscular pain. With regard to the action mechanisms investigated, it may be concluded that treatment with Harpagophytum extract LI 174 may be expected to have a significant influence on sensory and vascular muscular response and bring about a reduction in muscle stiffness. No central nervous effects were discovered.
TCM diagnoses and treatment recommendations for specific patients with chronic low back pain vary widely across practitioners. Acupuncture clinical trials using an individualized treatment arm may be difficult to replicate or evaluate because of low concordance among acupuncturists. Comparison of individualized treatment with a thoughtfully developed standardized approach is warranted to determine which, if either, is superior.
To our knowledge, the CINS trial will be the largest, randomized trial of psychological and nutritional interventions for chronic low back pain patients to date. It will provide important information regarding the effectiveness of CBT and seal oil for chronic low back pain patients.
Important methodologic components of randomized controlled trials of herbal medicines are incompletely reported including allocation concealment, method used to generate the allocation sequence, and whether an intention-to-treat analysis was used. Also, key information unique to these trials may be missing, such as percentage of active constituents and type or form of the herbal medicine preparation. We suggest trialists consult a recent extension of the Consolidated Standard of Reporting Trials statement specific to herbal medicine trials when designing and reporting randomized controlled intervention trials of herbal medicines.
Antepartum phenobarbital and vitamin K effected a nonsignificant reduction in both mild and severe intraventricular hemorrhage. The incidence of severe intraventricular hemorrhage in our control group was significantly less than that observed in previous studies.
Combined maternal therapy with vitamin K and phenobarbital before premature delivery does not affect umbilical blood PT, PTT, or functional activity of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X. However, it is associated with the reduced presence of decarboxylated prothrombin in umbilical blood at birth. There is significant improvement in umbilical blood coagulation tests as gestational age advances from 24 to 34 weeks.
Given the low cost (approximately .20 dollars for a course of therapy) and technologic simplicity of the intervention and the effect size observed in this study, a clinical trial with increased numbers of subjects is indicated to evaluate the potential of topical therapy to reduce infections and save newborn lives in developing countries.
Topical therapy with skin barrier-enhancing emollients improved survival rates among preterm hospitalized infants in Bangladesh. This study provides strong evidence for the implementation of topical therapy for high-risk preterm neonates in developing countries.
Our results confirm the good prognosis for the dermatitis and the increased risk of developing asthma and allergic rhinitis. Development of other allergic symptoms or sensitization was associated with the following factors: a family history of eczema, age at onset of eczema and its severity, early adverse reactions to foods, and proneness to infections.
Approximately one third of children with refractory, moderate-severe AD have IgE-mediated clinical reactivity to food proteins. The prevalence of food allergy in this population is significantly higher than that in the general population, and an evaluation for food allergy should be considered in these patients.
These findings help to: (1) elucidate the natural history of atopic disease in high-risk children; (2) document the progression of allergy from atopic dermatitis, food allergy, and food sensitization to respiratory allergy and aeroallergen sensitization despite food allergy prevention in infancy; (3) identify allergy predictive markers; and (4) expand our appreciation of the interactions of genetic and environmental factors in the development of atopy.
These data suggest that for experienced marijuana smokers with clinically significant muscle mass loss, both dronabinol (at acute doses at least four to eight times the current recommendation) and marijuana produce substantial and comparable increases in food intake without producing adverse effects.
Although qigong has beneficial effects on some of the metabolic risk factors for type 2 diabetes, methodologic limitations make it difficult to draw firm conclusions about the benefits reported. Randomized controlled trials are required to confirm the potential beneficial effects of qigong on the management of type 2 diabetes.
Gastrointestinal symptoms are very common in infants during the first 6 months after birth. These symptoms required hospitalisation only in a small percentage of cases, but led to the prescription of a 'dietary' milk formula in approximately 60% of the cases. Low birth weight and low gestational age were the main factors influencing the onset of the symptoms.
The annual total cost to the NHS of infant crying and sleeping problems is substantial. In the cost effectiveness analysis, the behavioural intervention incurred a small additional cost and produced a small significant benefit at 11 and 12 weeks of age. The educational intervention incurred a small additional cost without producing a significant benefit.
This case-controlled study of the influence of SMT and cervical arterial dissection shows that SMT is independently associated with vertebral arterial dissection, even after controlling for neck pain. Patients undergoing SMT should be consented for risk of stroke or vascular injury from the procedure. A significant increase in neck pain following spinal manipulative therapy warrants immediate medical evaluation.
Serious adverse events may be associated with pediatric spinal manipulation; neither causation nor incidence rates can be inferred from observational data. Conduct of a prospective population-based active surveillance study is required to properly assess the possibility of rare, yet serious, adverse events as a result of spinal manipulation on pediatric patients.
These data strongly indicate that GM is not an appropriate CM substitute for children with IgE-mediated CMA. A warning on the lack of safety of GM for children with CMA should be on the label of GM formulas to prevent severe allergic reactions in babies with CMA.
Infants fed this commercial soy formula demonstrated immune cell status similar to human milk/formula-fed infants, consistent with normal immune system development. The addition of nucleotides to soy formula did not significantly change specific individual immune cell populations but tended to increase numbers and percentages of T cells and decreased numbers and percentages of NK cells.
Soy formula was well tolerated by most infants with IgE-associated and non-IgE-associated cow's milk allergy. Development of IgE-associated allergy to soy was rare. Soy formula can be recommended as a first-choice alternative for infants >or=6 months of age with cow's milk allergy.
Healthy term infants fed a formula containing PO as the predominant oil in the fat blend had significantly lower BMC and BMD than those fed a formula without PO. The inclusion of PO in infant formula at levels needed to provide a fatty acid profile similar to that of human milk leads to lower bone mineralization.
Soy allergy occurs in only a small minority of young children with IgE-associated CMA. As such, soy formula may provide a safe and growth-promoting alternative for the majority of children with IgE-associated CMA shown to be soy tolerant at the time of introduction of soy formula.
Very delayed clinical reactions to reintroduction of CM in the diet can occur in CMPI patients; thus, accurate follow-up and frequent outpatient observation in patients with a long history of CMPI are probably more useful and safer than prolonged CM challenge.
In infants who are prone to developing cow's milk allergy, prolonged breast-feeding exclusively or combined with infrequent exposure to small amounts of cow's milk during the first 2 months of life induces development of IgE-mediated response to cow's milk.
From the initial assessment to the final pad-test at approximately 8 months after surgery, incontinence improved greatly in all three groups. This rapid improvement may have masked any treatment benefit. Further research should address incontinence in men whose urine loss has stabilized and who underwent surgery >8 months previously. Moreover, a telephone-based follow-up soon after discharge may alleviate many of the concerns expressed.
The addition of Active Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation to a programme of Pelvic Floor Muscle Training and Electromyography Biofeedback should be considered as a first-line option in alleviating some of the symptoms of lower urinary tract dysfunction associated with multiple sclerosis.
Both treatments clearly improved subjective parameters. However, only oxybutynin showed significant improvements in objective urodynamic parameters. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation can be used in patients who cannot take oxybutynin. Further studies are needed to show the long-term efficacy and cost analyses of nerve stimulation.
Transcutaneous third sacral nerve stimulation may be an effective and noninvasive ambulatory technique for the treatment of patients with refractory irritative voiding dysfunction. Following an initial response, patients may successfully apply this treatment themselves to ensure long-term relief.
These results suggest an objective acute effect of posterior tibial nerve stimulation on urodynamic parameters. Improved bladder overactivity is an encouraging argument to propose posterior tibial nerve stimulation as a noninvasive treatment modality in clinical practice.
The combined use of the IPSS, ICS-"BPH" and IIEF allows an evaluation of the relationship between age, prostatic symptoms and sexual dysfunction. Age may be considered both a direct and indirect (BPH-related) prognostic factor for sexual activity. Suprapubic prostatectomy resolves obstructive symptoms, and maintains sexual desire, overall sexual satisfaction and an improvement in quality of life. However, irritative symptoms, erection, orgasm and sexual intercourse satisfaction are not significantly altered.
Sphincteric incontinence is the most common urodynamic finding in patients with post-radical prostatectomy incontinence, although other findings may coexist. The most accurate diagnosis is attained when all objective measures are put in perspective with the clinical setting.
Our study indicates that incontinence after prostatectomy due to an increase in abdominal pressure (stress incontinence) does not depend on extrinsic sphincter function and is not related to maximal urethral pressure. We conclude that post-prostatectomy incontinence due to sphincter dysfunction results from intrinsic sphincter deficiency. In our experience bladder dysfunction is rarely the sole cause of post-prostatectomy incontinence.
As urologists reach consensus on the ideal clinical characteristics for radical prostatectomy candidates, surgery in fewer elderly patients and the dissemination of surgical advances have been associated with shorter length of stay, fewer in hospital complications and a lower long-term incontinence rate. However, there is capacity for improvement, as evidenced by the unchanging rate of anastomotic stricture and impotence.
Neuromodulation is markedly more effective than conservative management in alleviating symptoms of refractory urge incontinence. Quality of life and urodynamic function are also improved by neuromodulation. The effects of neuromodulation are long-lasting, and associated morbidity is low.
Although its pathophysiology is still not completely understood, we present the most recent evidence regarding the underlying anatomic and biochemical basis for CH. We also present an update on the modern management of CH, including the appropriate use of standard and novel abortive and prophylactic agents, as well as more invasive treatment.
Epidemiology of severe traumatic brain injuries in Austria is not much different from other industrialized countries. Traffic accidents are responsible for the majority of traumas, stressing the importance of road injury prevention. Attention should also be paid to the specific risks of older people and to prevent injuries at home.
Adults with schizophrenia being treated in a state psychiatric facility who participated in an 8-week therapeutic yoga program showed significant improvements in psychopathology and quality of life compared with controls. The findings of this study need to be confirmed in larger, more sufficiently powered studies with active control groups.
This systematic review found only moderate evidence for short-term effects of yoga on quality of life. As these effects were not clearly distinguishable from bias and safety of the intervention was unclear, no recommendation can be made regarding yoga as a routine intervention for schizophrenia patients.
The literature suggests that yoga can lead to significant symptomatic improvements in psychiatric disorders, along with neurobiological effects which may underlie these changes. This suggests that mental health professionals should be open to the potential benefits of spiritual practices for their patients, either as complementary interventions to modern treatments or as sole treatment in some disorders.
In patients with collagenous colitis, treatment with budesonide results in a reduction of inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNA. The level of inducible nitric oxide synthase mRNA in colonic mucosa correlates with the inflammatory and clinical activity. The results support that nitric oxide is a central factor in the pathogenesis of collagenous colitis.
1) The degree of lamina propria inflammation can be used as a histological predictor to guide treatment in patients with CC. 2) Patients who responded to antidiarrheal agents or had spontaneous remissions were significantly older than those patients requiring 5-ASA compounds or corticosteroids. 3) Patients who were taking NSAIDs were more likely to require corticosteroid therapy, presumably reflecting more severe disease.
CC and LC share a similar clinical picture and have a benign course with long-term cessation of diarrhea in more than 70% of patients. Mesalazine and budesonide seem to be good options as first-line treatment in LC and CC, respectively. Cholestyramine may be a good alternative in patients with concomitant bile acid malabsorption.
In our cohort of patients, 63% had lasting resolution of symptoms after a mean 3.5 yr follow-up. There was a high incidence of arthritis and NSAID use in our population, but there was no relationship between these entities and clinical course or histology. Initial histology, except possibly for Paneth cell metaplasia, did not reliably predict severity or course of disease. Finally, although variable in clinical presentation, treatment-free remissions are common in collagenous colitis.
Fecal stream diversion induced clinical and histopathologic remission in collagenous colitis. After closure of the ostomy, clinical symptoms and the abnormal collagen layer recurred. The findings strongly indicate that a noxious luminal factor is of pathogenetic importance. In older patients with medically resistant disease, a split ileostomy may be the therapeutic procedure of choice.
With respect to the preliminary data from this pilot trial, budesonide with its high topical and low systemic effects seems to be of therapeutic clinical benefit in collagenous colitis. A therapeutic effect could be demonstrated for both therapeutic goals, the clinical response and morphological changes. Further studies on the effects of budesonide on mucosal collagen metabolism and long-term follow-up are warranted.
There is strong evidence that budesonide is effective and well tolerated for the treatment of collagenous colitis. The evidence for benefit with bismuth subsalicylate or prednisolone is weaker. It is not clear that any of these agents produce actual remission, as opposed to clinical and histological improvement of the disease.
Therapeutic massage was effective for persistent low back pain, apparently providing long-lasting benefits. Traditional Chinese Medical acupuncture was relatively ineffective. Massage might be an effective alternative to conventional medical care for persistent back pain.
The consistency of the results provides, despite some discussed shortcomings of this study, evidence that in patients with chronic spinal pain, manipulation, if not contraindicated, results in greater short-term improvement than acupuncture or medication. However, the data do not strongly support the use of only manipulation, only acupuncture, or only nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs for the treatment of chronic spinal pain. The results from this exploratory study need confirmation from future larger studies.
Given the fact that even the treatments considered to be the best available achieve at best moderate effects, the observed effect sizes with APM are promising and warrant further investigation in replication studies. In contrast to common view, no superiority of individual versus group exercises could be found in the present study.
Initial studies have found massage to be effective for persistent back pain. Spinal manipulation has small clinical benefits that are equivalent to those of other commonly used therapies. The effectiveness of acupuncture remains unclear. All of these treatments seem to be relatively safe. Preliminary evidence suggests that massage, but not acupuncture or spinal manipulation, may reduce the costs of care after an initial course of therapy.
Publication or related biases were common within the sample of meta-analyses assessed. In most cases these biases did not affect the conclusions. Nevertheless, researchers should check routinely whether conclusions of systematic reviews are robust to possible non-random selection mechanisms.
Because this systematic review did not clearly indicate that acupuncture is effective in the management of back pain, the authors would not recommend acupuncture as a regular treatment for patients with low back pain. There clearly is a need for more high-quality randomized controlled trials.
In the present trial, music listening is a more sensitive stress-reliever in terms of biological vs clinical response. The hypothalamus-pituitary adrenal axis stress axis is a quick sensor of music listening in responding mechanically ventilated intensive care unit patients, through a rapid reduction in blood cortisol.
Additional research is needed with a larger sample size to evaluate further the influence of music on biochemical markers of the stress response in patients receiving mechanical ventilatory support. In future studies, confounding factors such as endotracheal suctioning and administration of medications that influence the stress response should be controlled for.
Mechanical ventilation has an adverse effect upon the CVS in healthy subjects and in patients with pulmonary pathology, particularly in the presence of preload-dependent LV dysfunction or afterload-induced RV dysfunction. Mechanical ventilation may benefit cardiac function in patients with respiratory failure and afterload-dependent or exercise-induced LV dysfunction.
Anxiety early after myocardial infarction onset is associated with increased risk of ischemic and arrhythmic complications. This finding suggests that anxiety should be considered among the conventional risk factors for in-hospital acute myocardial infarction complications.
Atypical antipsychotic drugs may be associated with a small increased risk for death compared with placebo. This risk should be considered within the context of medical need for the drugs, efficacy evidence, medical comorbidity, and the efficacy and safety of alternatives. Individual patient analyses modeling survival and causes of death are needed.
Small statistical effect sizes on symptom rating scales support the evidence for the efficacy of aripiprazole and risperidone. Incomplete reporting restricts estimates of response rates and clinical significance. Dropouts and adverse events further limit effectiveness. Atypicals should be considered within the context of medical need and the efficacy and safety of alternatives. Individual patient meta-analyses are needed to better assess clinical significance and effectiveness.
A moderate TC intervention can impact favorably on defined biomedical and psychosocial indices of frailty. This intervention can also have favorable effects upon the occurrence of falls. Tai Chi warrants further study as an exercise treatment to improve the health of older people.
This study shows that under well-designed conditions, Tai Chi exercise training could decrease blood pressure and results in favorable lipid profile changes and improve subjects' anxiety status. Therefore, Tai Chi could be used as an alternative modality in treating patients with mild hypertension, with a promising economic effect.
Stress reduction with the TM program is associated with reduced carotid atherosclerosis compared with health education in hypertensive African Americans. Further research with this stress-reduction technique is warranted to confirm these preliminary findings.
Moderate consumption of EGCG can improve the health status of overweight individuals undergoing regular exercise by reducing HR and plasma glucose concentrations. Loss of body fat, however, may require a higher intake of EGCG, other catechins or addition of metabolic stimulants.
This study showed no statistical difference in % reduction in BW, BMI and WC between the GTE and placebo groups after 12 weeks of treatment. The intake of GTE (491 mg catechins containing 302 mg EGCG) for 12 weeks is considered safe as shown by the results.
These findings suggest that EGCG alone has the potential to increase fat oxidation in men and may thereby contribute to the anti-obesity effects of green tea. However, more studies with a greater sample size and a broader range of age and BMI are needed to define the optimum dose.
Green tea has thermogenic properties and promotes fat oxidation beyond that explained by its caffeine content per se. The green tea extract may play a role in the control of body composition via sympathetic activation of thermogenesis, fat oxidation, or both.
Bioactive ingredients had energy intake reducing effects when used in combinations and in positive energy balance. Energy balance did not affect possible treatment induced energy intake, but did affect appetite by supporting negative energy balance. Bioactive ingredients may therefore be helpful in reducing energy intake and might support weight loss periods by relatively sustaining satiety and suppressing hunger.
Overall, our results demonstrate that mumps virus replication in human Leydig cells is not associated with a specific inhibition of IFNs or 2'5'OAS, MxA and PKR production and that these cells display relatively weak endogenous antiviral abilities, as opposed to their rat counterparts.
The health care system should see to it that infertile couples from lower social classes are offered information on the possibility of infertility treatment. High quality infertility treatment has to include both the "supply" of taking care of the infertile couple's psychosocial strain and the goal of ensuring successful pregnancies.
We found that yoga users are more likely to be white, female, young and college educated. Yoga users report benefit for musculoskeletal conditions and mental health, indicating that further research on the efficacy of yoga for the treatment and/or prevention of these conditions is warranted.
The lowering of standing blood pressure seen in men with a high calcium intake is accompanied by a decrease in cytosolic free platelet calcium and total erythrocyte calcium, by a reduction in intraplatelet and intra-erythrocyte sodium concentration and erythrocyte membrane cholesterol and by an increase in the activity of the erythrocyte and platelet sodium-pump.
These data do not show significant effects of calcium supplementation on serum lipids or body composition. Calcium supplementation in those with low dietary intakes may benefit blood pressure control. This trial was registered with the Australian Clinical Trials Registry as ACTRN 012605000274673.
A small reduction of 2 mm Hg in DBP in the mean of the population distribution, in addition to medical treatment, could have a great public health impact on the number of CHD and stroke events prevented. Whether such DBP reductions can be achieved in the population through lifestyle interventions, in particular through sodium reduction, depends on the results of ongoing primary prevention trials as well as the cooperation of the food industry, government agencies, and health education professionals.
A higher intake of dietary calcium decreases the risk of kidney stone formation in younger women, but supplemental calcium is not associated with risk. This study also suggests that some dietary risk factors may differ by age and sex. Finally, dietary phytate may be a new, important, and safe addition to our options for stone prevention.
As there was no difference in effectiveness, there is no reason why the least costly of the three dressings could not be used more widely across the UK National Health Service, thus generating potentially substantial savings. The option of involving patients and non-professional carers in changing dressings needs to be assessed more formally and could be associated with further significant reductions in health-care costs.
Application of Graftskin for a maximum of 4 weeks results in a higher healing rate when compared with state-of-the-art currently available treatment and is not associated with any significant side effects. Graftskin may be a very useful adjunct for the management of diabetic foot ulcers that are resistant to the currently available standard of care.
The percent change in foot ulcer area after 4 weeks of observation is a robust predictor of healing at 12 weeks. This simple tool may serve as a pivotal clinical decision point in the care of diabetic foot ulcers for early identification of patients who may not respond to standard care and may need additional treatment.
Promogran was comparable to moistened gauze in promoting wound healing in diabetic foot ulcers. It showed an additional efficacy for ulcers of less than 6 months' duration that was of marginal statistical significance. Furthermore, Promogran had a safety profile that was similar to that of moistened gauze, with greater user satisfaction. Therefore, Promogran may be a useful adjunct in the management of diabetic foot ulceration, especially in ulcers of less than 6 months' duration.
Diabetes is confirmed as a significant risk factor for peripheral vascular disease, infection, neuropathy, and ulceration. The severity of these disorders in terms of increased risk of hospital mortality, length of stay, and risk of surgical procedure is also demonstrated for those patients with diabetes.
After 20 weeks of good wound care, approximately 31% of diabetic neuropathic ulcers heal. Similarly, after 12 weeks of good care, approximately 24% of neuropathic ulcers attain complete healing. Further patient-level analyses are necessary to definitively determine the associations of age, wound size, and wound duration with likelihood of healing.
Given the prevalence, morbidity and healthcare costs of diabetic foot disease, it is surprising that available trials provide inadequate evidence to improve upon current empirically based treatment approaches. Substantial effort and resources should be deployed in order to investigate both new and existing treatments in a co-ordinated, systematic and consistent manner, so that a proper evidence base can be established for this important disease area.
These population-based U.K. amputation data are similar to amputation rates in the U.S. Amputation rates appear to have decreased significantly since 1980-1982. The impact of diabetes education and prevention programs that target the processes leading to amputation can now be evaluated.
The most frequent component causes for lower-extremity ulcers were trauma, neuropathy, and deformity, which were present in a majority of patients. Clinicians are encouraged to use proven strategies to prevent and decrease the impact of modifiable conditions leading to foot ulcers in patients with diabetes.
Substantial evidence supports screening all patients with diabetes to identify those at risk for foot ulceration. These patients might benefit from certain prophylactic interventions, including patient education, prescription footwear, intensive podiatric care, and evaluation for surgical interventions.
A specialized clinic for prevention of lower-extremity amputation is described. Initial and contralateral amputation rates appear to be far lower in this population than in previously published reports for similar populations. Relative to patients without diabetes, patients with diabetes were more than seven times as likely to have a lower-extremity amputation. These data suggest that aggressive collaboration of vascular surgery and podiatry can be effective in preventing lower-extremity amputation in the high-risk population.
All the probiotics used were superior to placebo for side effect prevention, but were not associated with better compliance with antibiotic therapy. The effect of probiotic supplementation on side effects during anti-H. pylori regimens seemed to be independent of the probiotic species used.
Our review suggests that supplementation with probiotics could be effective in increasing eradication rates of anti-H. pylori therapy, and could be considered helpful for patients with eradication failure. Furthermore, probiotics show a positive impact on H. pylori therapy-related side effects.
High-dose IV iron failed to demonstrate the robust changes reported in three prior open-label studies. Differences in iron formulation, dosing regiment, and peripheral iron status may explain some of the discrepancies between this and previous IV iron treatment studies.
This is the first double-blinded, placebo-controlled study to demonstrate statistically significant improvement in RLS symptoms using oral iron therapy in patients with low-normal ferritin. The findings from this study suggest that additional larger randomized placebo-controlled trials of iron as treatment for patients with low-normal ferritin are warranted.
The results in this study provide valuable information for future studies, but the efficacy and safety of IV iron treatment for RLS remain to be established in double-blind studies. The serum ferritin results suggest that greater than expected iron loss occurs after IV iron loading.
Supplemental iron treatments can sustain previously achieved improvements with a single IV iron treatment, but achieving high ferritin levels was not in themselves a guarantee of sustained improvements. The most notable finding was the post-infusion changes in serum ferritin and its implication for altered iron excretion.
Restless legs syndrome is a common disease in the general population, affecting women more often than men. It is associated with reduced quality of life in cross-sectional analysis. Parity is a major factor in explaining the sex difference and may guide further clarification of the etiology of the disease.
RLS may not be rooted in pathologies associated with traditional neurodegenerative processes but may be a functional disorder resulting from impaired iron acquisition by the neuromelanin cells in RLS. The underlying mechanism may be a defect in regulation of the transferrin receptors.
We have discovered a variant associated with susceptibility to periodic limb movements in sleep. The inverse correlation of the variant with iron stores is consistent with the suspected involvement of iron depletion in the pathogenesis of the disease.
Variability in PLMs within RLS subjects was substantial, yet individuals' characteristic PLM level represented a quantitative trait. Variability was unrelated to age or scores on scales of RLS severity, sleepiness, functional status, and mood. A larger number of recording nights increased the likelihood that any criterion was reached.
This scale meets performance criteria for a brief, patient completed instrument that can be used to assess RLS severity for purposes of clinical assessment, research, or therapeutic trials. It supports a finding that RLS is a relatively uniform disorder in which the severity of the basic symptoms is strongly related to their impact on the patient's life. In future studies, the IRLS should be tested against objective measures of RLS severity and its sensitivity should be studied as RLS severity is systematically manipulated by therapeutic interventions.
Fatty acid supplementation may offer a safe efficacious treatment option for educational and behavioral problems among children with DCD. Additional work is needed to investigate whether our inability to detect any improvement in motor skills reflects the measures used and to assess the durability of treatment effects on behavior and academic progress.
Both fluoxetine and cognitive-behavioural counselling given as a course of therapy are effective treatments for non-psychotic depression in postnatal women. After an initial session of counselling, additional benefit results from either fluoxetine or further counselling but there seems to be no advantage in receiving both. The choice of treatment may therefore be made by the women themselves.
Depressive symptomatology in the postpartum period negatively influences infant-feeding outcomes. These findings have important clinical implications and support the need for early identification and treatment of women with depressive symptomatology. However, strategies to address help-seeking barriers are needed if women are to receive appropriate and timely treatment. Research to determine effective interventions to support depressed breastfeeding women is warranted.
These findings suggest that IPT is an efficacious treatment for postpartum depression. Interpersonal psychotherapy reduced depressive symptoms and improved social adjustment, and represents an alternative to pharmacotherapy, particularly for women who are breastfeeding.
Few eligible studies were identified for each clinical population of interest. Despite limitations of the studies reviewed, the results indicate that both substance use and current or past experiences of abuse are associated with increased risk for PPD. Targeted clinical interventions for these women may be beneficial.
Among sexually active young women the incidence of symptomatic urinary tract infection is high, and the risk is strongly and independently associated with recent sexual intercourse, recent use of a diaphragm with spermicide, and a history of recurrent urinary tract infections.
Resistance rates among common uropathogens continue to evolve and appear to be increasing to many commonly used agents. Continued surveillance of resistance rates among uropathogens is needed to ensure that appropriate recommendations can be made for treatment of infected patients. Further studies addressing the clinical and bacteriological outcomes of patients infected with a resistant pathogen are needed.
The results described the integrity report of pharmacological studies of CSPG and indicated that it had significantly diuretic, antiblastic, antipyretic, anti-inflammatory and antidynous activities which support its folk medicine use on UTI.
This pilot study has demonstrated that omega-3 fatty acids can suppress natural cytotoxicity and reduce disease activity in patients with distal procto-colitis. These findings suggest a therapeutic strategy for managing patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
Misclassification by visual assessment of both success and restenosis in the present trial led to underestimating the true effect of fish oil in the prevention of restenosis. Accurate and objective methods, such as quantitative computer analysis, are thus required for evaluating the effects of interventions on coronary arteries.
In this follow-up of a trial of intensive dietary advice following myocardial infarction we did not observe any substantial long-term survival benefit. Further trials of fish and fibre advice are feasible and necessary to clarify the role of these foods in coronary disease.
Advice to eat more fruit was poorly complied with and had no detectable effect on mortality. Men advised to eat oily fish, and particularly those supplied with fish oil capsules, had a higher risk of cardiac death. This result is unexplained; it may arise from risk compensation or some other effect on patients' or doctors' behaviour.
The cost effectiveness of long term treatment with n-3 PUFA is comparable with other drugs recently introduced in the routine care of secondary prevention after MI. Since the clinical benefit provided by n-3 PUFA is additive, this therapy should be added to the established routine practice, with additive costs.
The early effect of low-dose (1 g/d) n-3 PUFAs on total mortality and sudden death supports the hypothesis of an antiarrhythmic effect of this drug. Such a result is consistent with the wealth of evidence coming from laboratory experiments on isolated myocytes, animal models, and epidemiological and clinical studies.
Although all 15 study patients were asymptomatic, similar changes may occur in symptomatic patients. A trial of medical therapy may be appropriate in asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients before further interventions. This strategy would avoid unnecessary invasive procedures, prevent a "restenosis cycle" and result in significant cost savings.
In NIDDM patients with hypertriglyceridemia, moderate amounts of fish oil induce a long-term significant reduction in plasma triglycerides, VLDL triglycerides, and NEFA and a significant enrichment in the erythrocyte phospholipid content of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, without deteriorating blood glucose control. However, this amount of omega-3 fatty acids was unable to improve insulin sensitivity in this group of patients.
Although the possibility of residual confounding by unmeasured factors cannot be entirely excluded, these data suggest that increasing fish intake from one to two servings per week to five to six servings per week does not substantially reduce the risk of coronary heart disease among men who are initially free of cardiovascular disease.
This study supports the hypothesis that a higher intake of alpha-linolenic acid is protective against fatal IHD. Higher consumption of foods such as oil-based salad dressing that provide polyunsaturated fats, including alpha-linolenic acid, may reduce the risk of fatal IHD.
Our data indicate that higher consumption of fish and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids is associated with a reduced risk of thrombotic infarction, primarily among women who do not take aspirin regularly, but is not related to risk of hemorrhagic stroke.
These results suggest that low plasma levels of alpha-linolenic acid might be associated with reduced risk of prostate cancer, independently of high meat intake. High linoleic acid and low marine fatty oils were not associated with increased risk, as previously hypothesized.
Postoperative daily administration of 4 g of omega-3 fatty acids in heart transplant recipients is effective as hypertension prophylaxis, depending on increases in serum eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids. Preservation of microvascular endothelial function, demonstrated by a more pronounced response to forearm skin ischemia in the treatment group, may contribute to the hypotensive role of omega-3 fatty acids.
a combination of polyunsaturated fatty acids produced a statistically significant reduction in systolic blood pressure, but no other significant benefits on risk factors. The trend towards fewer coronary events in those taking fatty acids warrants further investigation.
The daily administration of 6 g of fish oil during the first postoperative year has a beneficial effect on renal hemodynamics and blood pressure in renal-transplant recipients treated with cyclosporine. Although the fish-oil group had significantly fewer rejection episodes than the control group, graft survival at one year was not significantly better in the fish-oil group.
Although these data show a small but statistically significant increase in oxidative stress on the basis of plasma TBARS concentrations after the consumption of EPA and DHA, the clinical relevance of this change is questionable. In addition, as supplements of alpha-tocopheryl acetate were added to the diet, neither the plasma TBARS concentration nor the protein oxidation changed. Consequently, the results of this study indicate that there is no basis for vitamin E supplementation after consumption of EPA and DHA.
Our analyses indicate that diet supplementation with a relatively high dose of omega-3 PUFA, generally more than 3 g/d, can lead to clinically relevant BP reductions in individuals with untreated hypertension. However, use of omega-3 PUFA as antihypertensive therapy will require demonstration of long-term efficacy and patient acceptability of lower doses.
These data suggest that a high intake of mercury from nonfatty freshwater fish and the consequent accumulation of mercury in the body are associated with an excess risk of AMI as well as death from CHD, CVD, and any cause in Eastern Finnish men and this increased risk may be due to the promotion of lipid peroxidation by mercury.
It is important to continue FA supplementation over the long term in patients on methotrexate and FA in order to prevent them discontinuing treatment because of mouth ulcers or nausea and vomiting. Our data suggest that FA supplementation is also helpful in preventing neutropenia, with very little loss of efficacy of methotrexate.
The degree of folate depletion during MTX therapy depends primarily upon the weekly administered dose. Folate depletion may be related to B12 deficiency in RBC. Since FA levels were not related to parameters of disease activity it is conceivable that MTX does not exert its action in RA primarily by inhibiting dihydrofolatereductase. Therefore, additional folate compounds, if necessary, should not lead to a reduction in the efficacy of MTX.
The rate of cerebral palsy has risen in spite of falling perinatal and neonatal mortality rates, a rise that is even more pronounced when the mildest and least reliably ascertained are excluded. The effect of modern care seems to be that many babies < 2500 g who would have died in the perinatal period now survive with severe cerebral palsy. A global measure of severity should be included in registers of cerebral palsy to determine a minimum threshold for international comparisons of rates, and to monitor changes in the distribution of severity.
Large increases in the use of interventions aimed at reducing birth asphyxia and handicaps had not (by 1985) resulted in lower rates of cerebral palsy. This suggests that birth asphyxia is not a major cause. The increased survival of low birthweight infants has resulted in more cerebral palsy in this group, due either to postnatal complications of immaturity or prenatal damage to the fetal brain. These findings have implications for planning perinatal care and for litigation for putative obstetric malpractice in cerebral palsy cases.
The optimal exercise program for improving claudication pain distances in patients with peripheral arterial disease uses intermittent walking to near-maximal pain during a program of at least 6 months. Such a program should be part of the standard medical care for patients with intermittent claudication.
Further research is needed to confirm these associations and additional research is needed to see whether they might be causative. Practical public health advice about the importance of controlling the home environment may then be targeted at families with atopic eczema.
Patients with atopic disease based on HDM allergy may have impaired quality of life. The majority of these patients have allergic rhinitis. The (co)existence of asthma, expressed in terms of diagnostic criteria or symptom severity, or the presence of sleep disorders as a consequence of AEDS, may further impair quality of life.
The review group concluded that breastfeeding seems to protect from the development of atopic disease. The effect appears even stronger in children with atopic heredity. If breast milk is unavailable or insufficient, extensively hydrolysed formulas are preferable to unhydrolysed or partially hydrolysed formulas in terms of the risk of some atopic manifestations.
The results suggest that in relatively low-caries conditions the school-based use of xylitol/maltitol or erythritol/maltitol lozenges would not have additional caries-preventive effect when compared with comprehensive prevention.
The benefits of topical fluorides are firmly established based on a sizeable body of evidence from randomized controlled trials. The size of the reductions in caries increment in both the permanent and the primary dentitions emphasizes the importance of including topical fluoride delivered through toothpastes, rinses, gels or varnishes in any caries preventive program. However, trials to discern potential adverse effects are required, and data on acceptability. Better quality research is needed to reach clearer conclusions on the effects of slow release fluoride devices, milk fluoridation, sealants in comparison with fluoride varnishes, and of different modes of delivering fluoride to orthodontic patients.
Partial sugar substitution with polyols is an important dietary tool in the prevention of dental caries that should be used to enhance existing fluoride-based caries prevention programmes. The most effective method of conveying this information to the public is through a proper health claim for these alditols in food labelling. The present review summarizes clinical and biochemical aspects of the above three dietary polyols and emphasizes the role of sugar substitution as a potential health-promoting strategy.
At the time the new local iodization policy put forward, iodine nutrition was generally adequate in both urban and rural areas, suggesting that the new policy for adjusting the standard salt iodine concentration is effective. Our data also indicate that the reason people living in urban areas had a lower urinary iodine concentration than people in rural areas may be due to their preference for using non-iodized salt in the last 2 or 3 years. Maintaining USI at an appropriate level is an important part of preventing iodine deficiency disorders and should always be based on regular monitoring and comparison of urinary iodine concentration by province.
Seme is proven to be rapidly absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract. It appears to be useful as adjunctive therapy with LT(4) in the treatment of AIT. The exact mechanism(s) is not very well determined, it might enhance the activity of detoxifying enzymes and enforce the defense against oxidative stress.
The prevalence of abnormal biochemical thyroid function reported here is substantial and confirms previous reports in smaller populations. Among patients taking thyroid medication, only 60% were within the normal range of TSH. Modest elevations of TSH corresponded to changes in lipid levels that may affect cardiovascular health. Individual symptoms were not very sensitive, but patients who report multiple thyroid symptoms warrant serum thyroid testing. These results confirm that thyroid dysfunction is common, may often go undetected, and may be associated with adverse health outcomes that can be avoided by serum TSH measurement.
Our study showed that in HT patients 6 months of Se treatment caused a significant decrease in serum anti-TPO levels, which was more profound in the second trimester. The extension of Se supplementation for 6 more months resulted in an additional 8% decrease, while the cessation caused a 4.8% increase, in the anti-TPO concentrations.
Individuals with the TCF7L2 rs12255372 risk genotype may reduce body adiposity by consuming a diet lower in total fat. These reductions may induce better glycemic control for such individuals predisposed to type 2 diabetes. The Pounds Lost trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as 
Individuals carrying the C allele of the branched-chain amino acid/aromatic amino acid ratio-associated variant rs1440581 may benefit less in weight loss and improvement of insulin sensitivity than those without this allele when undertaking an energy-restricted high-fat diet.
The results do not support the notion that the MedDiet has a beneficial effect on kidney function over and above that of advice for a low-fat diet in elderly individuals at high cardiovascular risk.
Among persons at high cardiovascular risk, a Mediterranean diet supplemented with extra-virgin olive oil or nuts reduced the incidence of major cardiovascular events. (Funded by the Spanish government's Instituto de Salud Carlos III and others; Controlled-Trials.com number, ISRCTN35739639.).
Participants with little education, a larger waist-to-height ratio, or diabetes and those who were less physically active, single, divorced or separated, or smokers were less likely to adhere to the MedDiet, an ideal model for food choices. Stronger efforts of health promotion are needed in these groups to foster adoption of the MedDiet.
Both the traditional Mediterranean diet and a low-fat diet exerted beneficial effects on BP and could be part of advice to patients for controlling BP. However, we found lower values of diastolic BP in the two groups promoting the Mediterranean diet with extra virgin olive oil or with nuts than in the control group.
Overall, all racial groups significantly improved their dietary pattern over time, but the maintenance of these behaviors were lower among African-American women. More research and larger minority samples are needed to determine the specific factors that improve breast cancer-specific outcomes in diverse populations of survivors.
Our results suggest that acupressure is another effective alternative medicine in reducing low back pain, although the standard operating procedures involved with acupressure treatment should be carefully assessed in the future.
An exercise prescription and six lessons in Alexander technique alone were both more than 85% likely to be cost effective at values above pound20 000 per QALY, but the Alexander technique performed better than exercise on the full range of outcomes. A combination of six lessons in Alexander technique lessons followed by exercise was the most effective and cost effective option.
These findings suggest that the integration of either SMGO or TTM therapy as additional options to provide holistic care to older people with chronic low back pain could be considered by health professionals. Further research into the use of ginger as an adjunct to massage therapy, particularly TTM, is recommended.
The number of spinal manipulation visits had modest effects on cLBP outcomes above those of 18 hands-on visits to a chiropractor. Overall, 12 visits yielded the most favorable results but was not well distinguished from other dose levels.
The active progressive treatment program was more successful in reducing pain and self-experienced disability and also in improving lumbar endurance than was the passive control treatment. However, the group difference in lumbar endurance tended to diminish at the 1-year follow-up.
Massage therapy, as a stand-alone treatment, reduces pain and improves function compared to no treatment in some musculoskeletal conditions. When massage is compared to another active treatment, no clear benefit was evident.
Several studies have attempted to estimate the direct, indirect, or total costs associated with LBP in various countries using heterogeneous methodology. Estimates of the economic costs in different countries vary greatly depending on study methodology but by any standards must be considered a substantial burden on society. This review did not identify any studies estimating the total costs of LBP in the United States from a societal perspective. Such studies may be helpful in determining appropriate allocation of health-care resources devoted to this condition.
Despite the sparse information and the methodological heterogeneity of the studies, pooled results allowed for an indirect estimation of the prevalence of low back pain in the region that was pretty consistent with the published results obtained from other settings. New studies need to be carried out to supplement and overcome the methodological weaknesses of those previously conducted.
This review summarises 12-month prevalence of visits to massage therapists in six countries (USA, UK, Canada, Australia, Singapore and South Korea). A small but significant percentage of these general populations visit massage therapists each year.
The adjusted outcomes from SITS-MOST were almost identical to those in relevant RCTs and reinforce the conclusion drawn previously in the unadjusted analysis. We identified several important outcome predictors to better identify patients suitable for thrombolysis.
Aspirin (or another oral antiplatelet drug) is protective in most types of patient at increased risk of occlusive vascular events, including those with an acute myocardial infarction or ischaemic stroke, unstable or stable angina, previous myocardial infarction, stroke or cerebral ischaemia, peripheral arterial disease, or atrial fibrillation. Low dose aspirin (75-150 mg daily) is an effective antiplatelet regimen for long term use, but in acute settings an initial loading dose of at least 150 mg aspirin may be required. Adding a second antiplatelet drug to aspirin may produce additional benefits in some clinical circumstances, but more research into this strategy is needed.
Long term therapy with aspirin is associated with a significant increase in the incidence of gastrointestinal haemorrhage. No evidence exists that reducing the dose or using modified release formulations would reduce the incidence of gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
The effect of aspirin therapy on stroke differs between individuals based on the presence or absence of overt vascular disease, in contrast with the consistent reduction in myocardial infarction by aspirin therapy observed in all populations. We hypothesize that the effect of aspirin therapy on stroke for persons with major risk factors for vascular disease may be intermediate between a substantial decrease for those with manifest vascular disease and a possible small increase for healthy persons due to accentuated intracranial hemorrhage. When aspirin is given for primary prevention of vascular events, available data support using 75 to 81 mg/d.
A moderate T'ai Chi intervention can enhance arthritis self-efficacy, quality of life, and functional mobility among older adults with osteoarthritis. T'ai Chi training is a safe and effective complementary therapy in the medical management of lower extremity osteoarthritis.
This methodology of developing EBCPGs provides a structured approach to assessing the literature and developing EBCPGs that incorporates clinicians' feedback and is widely acceptable to practicing clinicians. Further well-designed RCTs are warranted regarding the use of several interventions where evidence was insufficient to make recommendations.
This study confirms the beneficial effects of Caiapo on plasma glucose as well as cholesterol levels in patients with type 2 diabetes. For the first time, the long-term efficacy of Caiapo on glucose control was demonstrated by the observed decrease in HbA(1c). Thus, the neutraceutical Caiapo seems to be a useful agent in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
This study confirms the beneficial effects of Caiapo on glucose and HbA1c control in patients with T2DM after 5 months follow-up. Improvement of insulin sensitivity was accompanied by increased levels of adiponectin and a decrease in fibrinogen. Thus, Caiapo can be considered as natural insulin sensitizer with potential antiatherogenic properties.
Both mobility impairment and ADL disability in type 2 diabetes have multiple causes that are due to diabetes complications and common comorbidities. The specific causes of each functional problem are largely distinct, and different approaches may be required to prevent their onset or progression.
In a well-functioning older population, diabetes is associated with early indicators of functional decline, even after accounting for body composition and diabetes-related comorbidities. Poor glycemic control contributes to this relationship. Whether improvement in glycemic control in older people with diabetes would change this association should be tested.
The KD is a safe and effective alternative therapy for intractable childhood epilepsy in Korea, although the customary diet contains substantially less fat than traditional Western diets, but life-threatening complications should be monitored closely during follow-up.
A modified Atkins diet appears to demonstrate preliminary efficacy for adults with intractable epilepsy, especially in those who lost weight. Considering the rapid response in those who improved, but somewhat high discontinuation rate, a 2-month trial period may be adequate to assess for efficacy.
The KD is an effective treatment for some children with refractory epilepsy, being generally well tolerated and rarely associated with side-effects. Response is not necessarily predicted by age, syndrome or aetiology. A prospective study of the KD is presently underway.
In our experience with relatively small adult population, adherence to KD is difficult. In patients who had compliance over 3 weeks (6/8), KD does not seem to have a significant effect. Yet, the significant reduction in the two patients who concluded the study per protocol may indicate that some patients may benefit from this diet. Significant increase in LDL levels and the unlikable dietary changes are additional impediments to its implementation among adults with refractory epilepsy.
The 4:1 KD showed greater antiepileptic efficacy than the 3:1 diet with higher seizure-free outcome. In most cases, seizure free outcome was maintained even after changing the ratio to 3:1. Dietary tolerability was better in the 3:1 diet than the 4:1 with less frequent gastrointestinal symptoms.
Maternal satisfaction with intrapartum analgesia was significantly higher with epidural analgesia than non-epidural analgesic techniques. Overall satisfaction scores for labour and delivery were high regardless of analgesic approach, reflecting the multiple issues other than pain relief that are involved in the childbirth experience.
Nulliparous women have a high usage of epidural analgesia, regardless of their prelabour intentions. In women who do not intend to use epidural analgesia, the temporal delay in insertion compared with those who use epidural analgesia as their primary analgesic modality is associated with a small but statistically significant reduction in overall labour duration and operative delivery rates.
Labour in a clinical environment may undermine women's feelings of competence, perceptions of labour, confidence in adapting to parenthood and initiation of successful breastfeeding. These effects may be reduced by the provision of additional companionship during labour aimed to promote self-esteem.
Psychosocial support by doulas had a positive effect on breastfeeding and duration of labour. It had a more limited impact on medical interventions, perhaps because of the strict routine in hospital procedures, the cultural background of the women, the short duration of the intervention, and the profile of the doulas. It is important to include psychosocial support as a component of breastfeeding promotion strategies.
The presence in labor of a female relative was shown to be associated with fewer interventions and a higher frequency of normal delivery compared with the outcomes of those without family member support. The presence of a female relative as a labor companion is a low-cost, preventative intervention that is consistent with the traditional cultural practices in Botswana. In the light of this and previous studies, all women giving birth in a hospital should be offered the choice of a female relative as a companion to give support during labor.
For middle-class women laboring with the support of their male partner, the continuous presence of a doula during labor significantly decreased the likelihood of cesarean delivery and reduced the need for epidural analgesia. Women and their male partners were unequivocal in their positive opinions about laboring with the support of a doula.
Nasogastric tubes offer only limited protection against aspiration pneumonia in patients with dysphagia from acute stroke. Pneumonia occurs mainly in the first days of the illness and patients with decreased consciousness and a severe facial palsy are especially endangered.
Patients who meet criteria for admission to a stroke rehabilitation unit and who have a PEG in place are at increased risk for medical complications and death. Those who survive, however, show similar functional recovery and rate of home discharge as case-matched controls.
The frequency of dysphagia was relatively high. Regarding anatomical-clinical correlation, the most important factor was the size rather than the location of the lesion. Dysphagia assessed clinically was a significant variable predicting death and disability at 90 days.
Sleep in caregivers of children with chronic illnesses, in particular ventilator dependency, is significantly disrupted, resulting in chronic partial sleep deprivation. Owing to the level of attention and care required by these children, interventions and support for caregivers to improve their sleep quality and quantity are necessary.
The treatment of pediatric insomnia is an unmet medical need. Before appropriate pharmacologic management guidelines can be developed, rigorous, large-scale clinical trials of pediatric insomnia treatment are vitally needed to provide information to the clinician on the safety and efficacy of prescription and over-the-counter agents for the management of pediatric insomnia.
Results suggest children with ADHD have reduced sleep quantity and more disturbed sleep on actigraphic measures, reduced sleep quality on the self report, and more problematic behaviors on the parent report. Clinical interventions for children with ADHD who present with sleep problems should include screening for etiologic and exacerbating factors, institution of behavioral-management strategies, and consideration of pharmacologic treatment targeted toward evening ADHD symptoms.
The efficacy of self-lowering of systolic blood pressure in mild hypertensives by continuous feedback was enhanced by 6 mmHg with 4 weeks of practice at home. Standard arm-cuff blood pressure was reduced by a clinically relevant amount. The home environment proved cost effective for this 'high-tech' approach.
Use of TM for 16 weeks in CHD patients improved blood pressure and insulin resistance components of the metabolic syndrome as well as cardiac autonomic nervous system tone compared with a control group receiving health education. These results suggest that TM may modulate the physiological response to stress and improve CHD risk factors, which may be a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of CHD.
Combination low dose drug treatment increases efficacy and reduces adverse effects. From the average blood pressure in people who have strokes (150/90 mm Hg) three drugs at half standard dose are estimated to lower blood pressure by 20 mm Hg systolic and 11 mm Hg diastolic and thereby reduce the risk of stroke by 63% and ischaemic heart disease events by 46% at age 60-69.
Low-dose diuretics are the most effective first-line treatment for preventing the occurrence of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. Clinical practice and treatment guidelines should reflect this evidence, and future trials should use low-dose diuretics as the standard for clinically useful comparisons.
Chronic pain is highly prevalent among persons with limb loss, regardless of time since amputation. A common predictor of an increased level of intensity and bothersomeness among all pain sites was the presence of depressive symptoms. Further studies are needed to elucidate the relationship between pain and depressive symptoms among amputees.
Although up to 70% of patients have phantom limb pain after amputation, there is little evidence from randomized trials to guide clinicians with treatment. Evidence on preemptive epidurals, early regional nerve blocks, and mechanical vibratory stimulation provides inconsistent support for these treatments. There is currently a gap between research and practice in the area of phantom limb pain.
High dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy would be a highly appropriate modality for treating prostate cancer. Appropriately designed HDR brachytherapy regimens would be expected to be as efficacious as low dose rate, but with added advantages of logistic convenience and more reliable dose distributions. Similarly, external beam treatments for prostate cancer can be designed using larger doses per fraction; appropriately designed hypofractionation schemes would be expected to maintain current levels of tumor control and late sequelae, but with reduced acute morbidity, together with the logistic and financial advantages of fewer numbers of fractions.
This analysis provides strong supporting evidence that alpha/beta values for prostate tumor control are atypically low, as indicated by previous analyses and radiobiological considerations. If true, hypofractionation or HDR regimens for prostate radiotherapy (with appropriate doses) should produce tumor control and late sequelae that are at least as good or even better than currently achieved, with the added possibility that early sequelae may be reduced.
The overall α/β value was consistently low, unaffected by AD deprivation, and lower than the appropriate values for late normal-tissue morbidity. Hence the fractionation sensitivity differential (tumor/normal tissue) favors the use of hypofractionated radiotherapy schedules for all risk groups, which is also very beneficial logistically in limited-resource settings.
At 5 years after diagnosis, men treated with radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer continue to experience worse urinary incontinence than men treated with external beam radiotherapy. However, the two treatment groups were more similar to each other with respect to overall sexual function, mostly because of a continuing decline in erectile function among the external beam radiotherapy patients between years 2 and 5.
By analysis of a large EBRT-only cohort along with a method that uses all the repeated measures of PSA after the end of treatment, a low and precise α/β was estimated. These data support the use of hypofractionation at fractional doses up to 2.8 Gy but cannot presently be assumed to accurately represent higher doses per fraction.
The estimated fractionation sensitivity for Grade ≥2 late rectal toxicity is consistent with values of α/β for rectum found previously in human beings and in rodents. However, the confidence interval is large, and there is no evidence that LQ correction of the rectal DVH significantly changes the fit or predictions of the LKB model for this endpoint.
As expected from radiobiological considerations, HFX reduces GI and GU late toxicities. Concerning early bRFS, our clinical findings suggest that HFX is no less effective than STD when delivering an isoeffective (alpha/beta=10) dose. Despite the relatively short follow-up, this result appears to be inconsistent with a low alpha/beta ratio for prostate cancer.
The current external beam fractionation studies are consistent with a very low α/β ratio for prostate cancer, although the CIs include α/β ratios up to 4.14 Gy in the presence of a time factor. Details of the dose fractionation in the 2 trial arms have critical influence on the information that can be extracted from a study. Studies with unfortunate designs will supply little or no information about α/β regardless of the number of subjects enrolled.
This treatment modality has proved to be feasible and well tolerable. The rapid tumor shrinkage in the combined approach of radiotherapy with hyperthermia before beginning brachytherapy seems to be a good prerequisite for improving of the disappointing results in cure of advanced cancer of the uterine cervix.
For locoregionally advanced cervical cancer, the addition of HT to RT resulted in long-term major improvement in local control and survival without increasing late toxicity. This combined treatment should be considered for patients who are unfit to receive chemotherapy. For other patients, the optimal treatment strategy is the subject of ongoing research.
Advanced stage and pretreatment hemoglobin level are independent prognostic factors in cervical carcinomas. The immunohistologic detection of (a functionally inactive) p53 and the presence of hypoxia had no prognostic impact, if analyzed as single parameters. However, the combination of both parameters was able to discriminate different prognostic subgroups. Moreover, hypoxic cancers were more often immunohistologically positive for tp53 protein and had a higher DNA index with the highest DNA index in tumors with both hypoxia and tp53 protein expression. These findings in summary support the theory that the tumor's microenvironment may influence the biologic behavior via hypoxia.
Clinical stage and size of tumor are critical factors in prognosis, therapy efficacy, and evaluation of results in carcinoma of the uterine cervix. The doses to point A suggest that for lesions <2 cm, doses of 75 Gy result in < or =10% pelvic failures, whereas in more extensive lesions, even with doses of 85 Gy, the pelvic failure rate is about 30%; and in Stage IIB-III tumors, doses of 85 Gy result in 35-50% pelvic failures. Refinements in brachytherapy techniques and/or use of agents to selectively sensitize the tumors to irradiation will be necessary to improve the present results in invasive carcinoma of t
Tpot values determined with current techniques by different laboratories cannot be used interchangeably for the purpose of therapy decisions. Vigorous quality assurance and standardization of the laboratory procedures and analysis methods are important to reduce interlaboratory variation. In this uniformly treated group of patients with cancer of the uterine cervix, traditional clinical prognostic factors remain the most important. Preliminary data suggest that the flow cytometry-determined Tpot and labeling index predict for disease-free survival, although a larger number of patients with longer follow-up is required to assess the true prognostic significance of these assays and to determine if their effect is independent of other clinical factors.
These data demonstrate the efficacy of H1N1 vaccine in most patients with hematologic malignancies and support the recommendation for the administration of two doses of vaccine in immunocompromised patients. These results may contribute towards the development of evidence-based guidelines for influenza vaccination in such patients in the future.
Patients with colorectal cancer mount an immune response to influenza vaccination irrespective of their chemotherapy regimen or timing. However, concurrent responses to all three strains in the individual patient with colorectal cancer are uncommon. The investigation of a booster vaccine in this population is warranted.
Death from influenza-related infections occurred in an estimated 9% of patients with cancer hospitalized for such. Using recommended vaccination schedules for patients with cancer and their contacts reduced hospitalizations, treatment delays, and deaths in this highly susceptible population.
Influenza virus infection is an important cause of mortality early after HSCT. Our nonrandomized data suggest that early antiviral therapy with neuraminidase inhibitors may prevent progression to pneumonia and decrease viral shedding, which may prevent both influenza-related death in index patients and nosocomial transmission to others.
2009 H1N1 Influenza caused mild symptoms in most patients with cancer and/or HSCT. None died or required mechanical ventilation. Immunosuppression from cancer or its treatment including HSCT may not be a substantial risk for poor outcome, however further studies are needed to validate our results.
TENS decreased postoperative opioid analgesic requirements and opioid-related side effects when utilized as an adjunct to PCA after lower abdominal surgery. Use of TENS at mixed (2- and 100-Hz) frequencies of stimulation produced a slightly greater opioid-sparing effect than either low (2-Hz) or high (100 Hz) frequencies alone.
It is recognized that the World Health Organization (WHO) analgesic ladder, whilst providing relief of cancer pain towards the end of life for many sufferers world-wide, may have limitations in the context of longer survival and increasing disease complexity. To complement this, it is suggested that a more comprehensive model of managing cancer pain is needed that is mechanism-based and multimodal, using combination therapies including interventions where appropriate, tailored to the needs of an individual, with the aim to optimize pain relief with minimization of adverse effects.
These data suggest that a program of annual or biennial screening using FOBTs might lower population risk for mortality from colorectal cancer sufficiently to have important public health implications. However, the confidence intervals around our odds ratio estimates were wide. We therefore believe that additional data will be needed before making recommendations that FOBT screening be expanded.
The results of our study underline the difficulties and barriers to implement a OC population screening in Italy, at least through primary care. Although attendance to FOBT was higher, it was disappointingly less than 30%. Significant actions to improve awareness amongst GPs and the population are a high priority.
The number-to-scope to find 1 cancer was comparable between the tests. However, participation and detection rates for advanced adenomas and cancer were significantly higher for I-FOBT. G-FOBT significantly underestimates the prevalence of advanced adenomas and cancer in the screening population compared with I-FOBT.
Adoption of health protective behaviors is associated with a higher attendance rate, whereas anxiety represents a strong barrier, even among people who deemed screening to be effective. Increasing the proportion of people who consult their GP when making a decision regarding screening might enhance participation.
Compliance is more likely with the immunochemical than the guaiac test, independent of the provider. Guaiac tests show a higher variability of the results among centres. The successful implementation of a screening programme requires a period of standardization of the test reading in order to avoid unexpected work overload for colonoscopy services.
The information in this article provides a useful benchmark for evidence-based counseling of patients with SCC of the oropharynx. The rates of local control, local-regional control, 5-year survival, and 5-year cause specific survival were similar for patients who underwent S +/- RT or RT +/- ND, whereas the rates of severe or fatal complications were significantly greater for the S +/- RT group. Furthermore, available data on the functional consequences of treatment suggest the superiority of RT +/- ND. The authors conclude that RT +/- ND is preferable for the majority of patients with SCC of the oropharynx.
The preliminary results of our series suggest that application of the da Vinci robotic surgical system for TORS to supraglottic partial laryngectomy is technically feasible and relatively safe. Furthermore, TORS provides excellent surgical exposure that allows complete tumor resection. Most importantly, TORS provides an alternative to open approaches and "conventional" transoral supraglottic partial laryngectomy.
Robot-assisted surgery proved to be as safe and effective as laparoscopic techniques in the treatment of colorectal diseases. Because of its dexterity and three-dimensional view, the da Vinci system was particularly useful in specific stages of the procedure, e.g., takedown of the splenic flexure, dissection of a narrow pelvis, identification of nervous plexus, and handsewn anastomosis. The cost-effectiveness of the procedure still needs to be evaluated.
This series compares favorably with similar published reports with regard to the safety and feasibility of robotic assistance in total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer. The lower conversion rates reported for robotic rectal resection compared with laparoscopy require validation in large randomized trials.
Our preliminary experience at a large community hospital suggests that robotic surgery is feasible in a clinical setting. Its daily use is safe and easily managed, and it expands the applications of minimally invasive surgery. However, the best indications still have to be defined, and the cost-benefit ratio must be evaluated. This report could serve as a basis for a future prospective, randomized trial.
Full robotic colorectal surgery is a safe and effective technique that exploits the advantages of the Da Vinci robot during the whole intervention, without the need to make use of hybrid operations. Outcome and pathology findings are comparable with those observed in open and laparoscopy procedures.
Proguanil and pyrimethamine both reduced parasitemia; however, proguanil significantly decreased mean parasite density more effectively than pyrimethamine. Pyrimethamine and proguanil may protect children with SCD from the complications of P falciparum infection despite persistent parasitemia. Proguanil may be more useful than pyrimethamine in the prevention of bone pain crises among patients with SCD.
This study represents the largest published series of consecutive patients with cancer undergoing CVC insertion under US guidance; this procedure allowed the completion of the therapeutic program for 1,930/1,978 (97.6%) of the catheters inserted. The absence of pneumotorax and other major complications indicates that US guidance should be mandatory for CVC insertion in patients with cancer.
The more intensive transfusion regimen did not result in fewer perioperative complications. The high frequency of complications emphasizes the need for anticipatory management of persons undergoing TA. A history of pulmonary disease identifies patients at increased risk for sickle cell-related events after TA surgery. Patients undergoing myringotomy have a low frequency of sickle cell-related events but a significant frequency of other serious perioperative complications.
Children with sickle cell disease presenting for elective tonsillectomy should be given a transfusion to a hemoglobin S ratio less than 40% in an attempt to reduce postoperative complications. Additional factors, such as age and presence of obstructive sleep apnea, only increase the potential risks.
Serial EEG recording has uncovered a range of clinical, subtle, and electrographic seizures complicating childhood cerebral malaria, and has emphasised their importance in the pathogenesis of coma. Further work is required to determine the most appropriate regimen for the prophylaxis and treatment of seizures in cerebral malaria, in order to improve outcome.
LNAA supplementation was associated with a trend to a lowering of plasma Phe levels. LNAA supplementation had a specific impact on executive functions particularly in verbal generativity and flexibility. For individuals already complying with diet and PKU medical product, additional supplementation with LNAA is of limited value. LNAA supplementation may be of benefit to those unable to comply with PKU medical product by reducing plasma Phe, perhaps by competing with Phe at the level of transport across the gut.
Heparin contaminated with OSCS was epidemiologically linked to adverse reactions in this nationwide outbreak. The reported clinical features of many of the cases further support the conclusion that contamination of heparin with OSCS was the cause of the outbreak.
Contrary to reports of HAAb in patients undergoing HD without increased morbidity and mortality, we found significant increases in both morbidity and mortality. The elevated morbidity and mortality may represent ongoing endothelial and platelet activation from repeated heparin exposures. Reduced morbidity and mortality will likely require early recognition of HAAb and alteration of anticoagulation in HD patients.
Among perinatal and postnatal factors, cranial US abnormalities are by far the most powerful predictors of disabling CP in low birth weight infants. Although PEL/VE was the strongest predictor, GM/IVH also appeared to independently contribute to the risk of DCP. NDCP in low birth weight infants appears to have a different risk profile than DCP. In particular, it is less closely related to US evidence of perinatal brain injury.
Circulating NTBI is transiently elevated following blood transfusion in preterm newborns. This increase was related to the age of blood transfused and correlated with increases in oxidative stress but not pro-inflammatory cytokines. While further studies are necessary to determine whether these transient effects influence clinical outcome, the current data do not support a significant role in the very preterm neonate for NTBI in TRIM.
To address the gap in pediatric reference intervals, the Canadian research project (CALIPER database) will establish comprehensive reference intervals for acylcarnitines, total carnitine, amino acids, essential fatty acids, phytanic acid, and very long chain fatty acids. All the tests will be limited to whole blood, plasma and serum samples.
More cases of inborn errors of metabolism are diagnosed by screening with tandem mass spectrometry than are diagnosed clinically. It is not yet clear which patients with disorders diagnosed by such screening would have become symptomatic if screening had not been performed.
Patients with inborn errors of metabolism should not be discriminated against and all health plans should specify that access to specialists and metabolic centers are a covered benefit of the plan. The acceptance of treatment guidelines, the development of international disease classification codes for the disorders, and the performance of cost-benefit analyses would all greatly facilitate this process. However, without recognition that these disorders require such services, and steps to provide them by the insurance industry, the care of children with metabolic disorders and other chronic diseases will continue to be a source of frustration and anger among the caregivers and the families they serve.
Among patients with sickle cell disease, the acute chest syndrome is commonly precipitated by fat embolism and infection, especially community-acquired pneumonia. Among older patients and those with neurologic symptoms, the syndrome often progresses to respiratory failure. Treatment with transfusions and bronchodilators improves oxygenation, and with aggressive treatment, most patients who have respiratory failure recover.
The quantity and quality of fat in the diets of children with PKU, in particular young children, should be given careful consideration in trying to optimize the ratio of linoleic acid: alpha-LA in their diets and in satisfying the requirements of this group for fat and alpha-LA.
Inhalation of nitric oxide by patients with severe adult respiratory distress syndrome reduces the pulmonary-artery pressure and increases arterial oxygenation by improving the matching of ventilation with perfusion, without producing systemic vasodilation. Randomized, blinded trials will be required to determine whether inhaled nitric oxide will improve outcome.
From these results, the authors conclude that restarting catheters at 72 hours does not reduce the risk of complication in the next 24 hours when compared with simply continuing the therapy with the original catheter. Additional studies should be conducted to justify a policy of automatically restarting therapy after 72 hours.
In this cohort of extremely low birth weight infants who survived to 36 weeks' postmenstrual age, neonatal infection increased the risk of a late death or survival with neurosensory impairment. However, infection was a weaker predictor of poor outcome than bronchopulmonary dysplasia, brain injury, and severe retinopathy.
Although persistent infection with CONS occurs in significantly smaller and less mature infants than with non-CONS, death is no more frequent and focal complications are significantly less frequent. Infants with persistent infection should undergo aggressive evaluation for focal complications, with the yield expected to be higher in those with non-CONS.
A fetal inflammatory response is protective for chronic lung disease. Neonatal sepsis is strongly associated with chronic lung disease, and the infecting organism is important. Coagulase-negative staphylococcal infection confers a risk for chronic lung disease similar to that of other bacteremias. Candidemia confers the greatest risk of chronic lung disease.
NBIs are associated with increased hospital treatment costs and LOS but by varying amounts depending on the BW. Preventing a single NBI could reduce the treatment costs of a VLBW infant by at least several thousand dollars. These savings are a greater percentage of the total treatment costs in VLBW infants with BW 1001 to 1500 g than in smaller infants.
Prophylactic administration of PCC was associated with a substantial reduction in the number of days and severity of respiratory illness in a cohort of highly trained distance runners. Maintenance of IFNgamma levels may be one mechanism underpinning the positive clinical outcomes.
Prophylactic use of the Difflam reduced the severity, but not the frequency, of URS among half-marathon runners. Post-race increases in systemic inflammatory markers were not altered by Difflam use, but markers of local inflammation (salivary myeloperoxidase and IL6) were augmented in the Difflam compared with the placebo group.
The present results indicate that low-intensity regenerative training sessions in cyclists should preferably be conducted for shorter durations than 3 h. It was demonstrated that 4-d cycling of 1 h each day reversed ergometric and immunological changes indicative of fatigue after 2 wk of intensive training.
The findings suggest that use of urine reagent strips could potentially estimate intensity of S. haematobium infection and their performance to screen urinary schistosomiasis agreed with previous observations.
None of the variables assessed were ideal predictors of morbidity. However, the results suggest that a combination of inexpensive, simple indicators may allow for improved targeting of S. haematobium treatment to those with severe morbidity and better monitoring of the progress of control campaigns when more expensive diagnostic methods are not available.
The current study showed day-to-day variation in CCA and Kato-Katz test results of children infected with S. mansoni. This indicates the necessity of more than one urine or stool samples to be collected on different days for more reliable diagnosis of S. mansoni infection in low endemic areas.
As the accuracy of a test is likely to vary across subgroups of patients, researchers and clinicians might carefully consider the potential for spectrum effects in all designs and analyses, particularly in diagnostic accuracy studies with differential sampling schemes for diseased (cases) and nondiseased individuals (controls).
Although this trial does not statistically demonstrate the noninferiority of oral treatment compared with the sequential treatment, our study confirmed the results of previously published reports and therefore supports the use of an oral antibiotic treatment of primary episodes of acute pyelonephritis in infants and young children.
Early treatment of acute pyelonephritis in infants and young children had no significant effect on the incidence of subsequent renal scarring. Furthermore, there was no significant difference in the rate of scarring after acute pyelonephritis when infants and young children were compared with older children.
The benefit of performing ultrasonography and scintigraphy in the acute phase or cystourethrography is minimal. Our findings support (1) technetium-99m-dimercaptosuccinic acid scintigraphy 6 months after infection to detect scarring that may be related to long-term hypertension, proteinuria, and renal function impairment (although the degree of scarring was generally minor and did not impair renal function) and (2) continued surveillance to identify recurrent urinary tract infections that may warrant further investigation.
After 1 year of follow-up monitoring, mild/moderate VUR does not increase the incidence of UTI, pyelonephritis, or renal scarring after acute pyelonephritis. Moreover, a role for urinary antibiotic prophylaxis in preventing the recurrence of infection and the development of renal scars is not supported by this study.
Cranberry juice was well accepted by the children, but led to no change in either the bacterial flora in the nasopharynx or the bacterial fatty acid composition of stools. Thus cranberries seem to have beneficial effect on urinary health only and this is not compromised by other unexpected antimicrobial effects.
Although single trials have been small, the available randomized evidence supports the general adoption of ODD of aminoglycosides in pediatric clinical practice. This approach minimizes cost, simplifies administration, and provides similar or even potentially improved efficacy and safety, compared with MDD of these drugs.
In the absence of structural kidney abnormalities evident in imaging studies after the first childhood UTI, the etiologic fraction of recurrent childhood UTIs as a main cause of CKD seems to be small. A child with normal kidneys is not at significant risk of developing CKD because of UTIs.
Prevalence rates of UTI varied by age, gender, race, and circumcision status. Uncircumcised male infants less than 3 months of age and females less than 12 months of age had the highest baseline prevalence of UTI. Prevalence estimates can help clinicians make informed decisions regarding diagnostic testing in children presenting with signs and symptoms of urinary tract infection.
  Renal function: there are no clear data to establish long-term consequences following UTIs during childhood. Most data seem to show that the outcome of renal function can already be delineated at first presentation or in the initial years of follow-up; only 0.4% of children with normal renal function at start presented a decrease during follow-up. Hypertension: there is a low risk, associated with renal damage. Growth and pregnancy-related complications: the few available data seem to exclude a major influence of UTIs.
BDD is relatively common in a dermatologic setting, especially among patients seeking cosmetic treatments. These patients have some different features compared with general dermatology patients. Dermatologists should be aware of the clinical characteristics of BDD to identify and refer these patients to mental health professionals.
A global acne scarring grading system is presented that would allow investigators, educators, and proceduralists to compare their cases more accurately and to have a more objective discussion of the efficacy of operative interventions or therapies. This scoring system is shown to be reproducible among observers independent of medical background, suggesting that patients can be assigned scores equally by physicians and nurses.
Engaging teenagers and young adults in priority setting is achievable using a variety of promotional methods. The top 10 uncertainties reveal an extensive knowledge gap about widely used interventions and the relative merits of drug versus non-drug based treatments in acne management.
Conducting epidemiologic research on ASD in adults is feasible. The prevalence of ASD in this population is similar to that found in children. The lack of an association with age is consistent with there having been no increase in prevalence and with its causes being temporally constant. Adults with ASD living in the community are socially disadvantaged and tend to be unrecognized.
Adolescence and young adulthood are associated with high levels of caregiver burden in both disorders; in ASD, the level is comparable to that reported by persons caring for individuals with a brain injury. Interventions are required to reduce caregiver burden in this population.
These data support the general findings of recent research in that there was little indication of clinically meaningful elevations in behavioural and emotional problems in siblings of children with ASD. Although further research replication is required, there was some indication that sibling relationships may be at risk where the child with ASD has significant behaviour problems.
In this cohort of adults first diagnosed with autism, on average, 37 years previously, social inclusion remains very limited, despite general improvements in autism symptomatology with age. Whether these findings will be replicated in future generations of children with autism, who now have the benefits of earlier diagnosis and wider access to specialist provision, needs to be the focus of further longitudinal research.
Phenomena associated with paternal age are clearly involved in the trajectories leading to autistic-like traits and ASD. Mechanisms influencing the trajectories might differ between older and younger fathers. Molecular genetic studies are now needed in order to further understand the association between paternal age and ASD, as well as normal variation in social, language, and repetitive behaviors in the general population.
Parent ratings and clinician ratings of anxiety are sensitive to detecting treatment change with CBT for anxiety relative to waitlist and treatment-as-usual control conditions in children with high-functioning ASD. Clinical studies are needed to evaluate CBT for anxiety against attention control conditions in samples of children with ASD that are well characterized with regard to ASD diagnosis and co-occurring anxiety symptoms.
Traits of ADHD at age 8 years significantly influence traits of ASD at age 12 years, after controlling for their initial relationship at age 8 years. In particular, early ADHD traits influenced later communication difficulties. These findings demonstrate the dynamic nature of co-occurring traits across development. In addition, these findings add to a growing body of literature suggesting that traits of ASD and ADHD may arise via similar aetiological processes.
The impact of school-based smoking intervention is different among Tibetan and Han students. This intervention was more effective for Tibetans when compared with the Han ethnic group. More research is needed on how intervention can be adapted to address ethnic and cultural differences.
Younger girls may be more susceptible to social influences at school related to tobacco use. School policies banning smoking by teachers and other school personnel within and outside the school should be an important component of comprehensive adolescent smoking prevention programs.
Most secondary schools are not smoke free, but most staff are likely to support smoke-free status. Existing inconsistency among educational messages, school practice and staff actions may undermine tobacco-smoking-prevention efforts. Proposed strengthening of smoke-free legislation is both timely and necessary to ensure that all New Zealand students are provided with totally smoke-free school environments, consistent with health education messages.
When delivered effectively, policy messages are associated with reduced student drug use at school. Abstinence messages and harsh penalties convey a coherent message to students. Strong harm-minimization messages are also associated with reduced drug use at school, but effects are weaker than those for abstinence messages. This smaller effect may be acceptable if, in the longer term, it leads to a reduction in harmful use and school dropout within the student population.
The results suggest that school and community characteristics account for variation in smoking levels across schools. Based on the current findings, the ideal school setting that supports low student smoking levels is located in a neighborhood where the cost of cigarettes is high, provides tobacco prevention education, and has a policy prohibiting smoking.
This study demonstrates an association between policy strength, policy enforcement, and the prevalence of smoking among pupils, after having adjusted for pupil level characteristics. These findings suggest that the wider introduction of comprehensive school smoking policies may help reduce teenage smoking.
In schools with SHCs, there exists a stronger association with improved school programs. Improved policies and programs were associated with decreases in risk behavior among students in intervention schools. The HMPSHC intervention may be a viable CSHP model to replicate and evaluate in other settings.
This study theoretically and methodologically guides researchers to test TFSP effectiveness in other states. Three strategic implications emerge: (1) schools should provide a consistent antismoking message in smoke-free environments; (2) schools should integrate TFSP into a comprehensive tobacco control initiative, including community-wide tobacco control programs and messages; and (3) the way a specific TFSP is promoted and communicated could determine how effective it is.
A great deal of the individual differences in smoking are explained by factors at the school level, therefore the context is very relevant in this case. The most relevant predictors for smoking in young adolescents include some factors related to the schools they attend. One variable stood out in accounting for the school to school differences: how well they enforced the no smoking rule. Therefore we can prevent or delay tobacco smoking in adolescents not only by publicising health risks, but also by better enforcing no smoking rules in schools.
Clearly perceived rules about smoking encourage students not to smoke on school grounds; however, perceptions of rules, along with strong enforcement, may displace behavior off of school grounds. Non-smoking policies should be part of a comprehensive approach, that supports cessation.
This multi-level intervention programme had a moderate effect on inhibiting the escalation from experimental to regular smoking among Chinese adolescents, but had little effect on the initiation of smoking. The programme improved adolescents' smoking-related knowledge, but did not change their attitudes towards smoking.
The data support an association between the frequency that youth observe smoking in various locations and the perception that smoking is socially acceptable by smoking status. Policies that restrict smoking in various locations will reduce both visibility and perceived acceptability of smoking in those locations.
The most susceptible youths lose autonomy over tobacco within a day or 2 of first inhaling from a cigarette. The appearance of tobacco withdrawal symptoms and failed attempts at cessation can precede daily smoking; ICD-10-defined dependence can precede daily smoking and typically appears before consumption reaches 2 cigarettes per day.
There is evidence of school effects on young people's drug use. Interventions that promote a positive school ethos and reduce student disaffection may be an effective complement to drug prevention interventions addressing individual knowledge, skills, and peer norms. Such approaches should now be piloted in a wider range of settings. Further research is also needed to explore mechanisms by which schools may influence young people's drug use.
The evidence concerning the effectiveness of a school policy alone in preventing youth tobacco use is weak and inconclusive. Experimental studies or observational studies with longitudinal design are warranted, employing clear definitions of policy components and careful control for confounding.
Teachers smoking during school hours is associated with adolescent smoking. This finding has implications for future tobacco prevention strategies in schools in many countries with liberal smoking policies where it might provide support for those working to establish smokefree schools.
Despite the different pupil outcomes and the variety of determinants used in the included papers, a school effect was evident. However, to improve our understanding of school effects, presentations of results from multilevel studies need to be standardised. Intraclass correlation and explained between school variance give relevant information on factors in the school environment influencing pupil outcomes, and should be included in all multilevel studies. Inclusion of pupil level predictors in the multilevel models should be based on theoretical considerations of how schools and communities are interconnected and how pupils and their families are influenced by school contextual factors.
During the several-month duration of the study, there were more frequent side effects during combined methylphenidate plus desipramine treatment than with either medication alone. Clinically, side effects present during combined medication appeared to be similar to and no more serious than those associated with desipramine alone.
The CY-BOCS yields reliable and valid subscale and total scores for obsessive-compulsive symptom severity in children and adolescents with OCD. Reliability and validity appear to be influenced by age of the child and the hazards associated with integrating data from parental and patient sources.
These findings suggest that comorbidity with a tic disorder has a limited effect on ADHD outcome. However, because of the relatively small sample of subjects with tic disorders, our conclusions should be considered preliminary until confirmed in larger studies of medicated and unmedicated children with ADHD with and without tic disorders.
Adults with asthma who were randomized to azithromycin did not show statistically significant improvement in asthma outcomes, although the study was underpowered to detect clinical improvement in 15% (number needed to treat = 7). Adults with severe persistent asthma who elected OL treatment documented clinical improvements in asthma symptoms, AQL, and asthma control that persisted after completion of OL azithromycin (number needed to treat = 2).
TAO is safe and may be a reasonable treatment alternative in a limited trial for patients who are unable to tolerate tapering of their glucocorticoid dosage. Therapy should be guided by the goal of treatment, that is, glucocorticoid dose reduction or improvement of pulmonary function with appropriate monitoring of pulmonary function and adverse effects.
Clarithromycin therapy can modulate IL-8 levels and neutrophil accumulation and activation in the airways of patients with refractory asthma. Macrolide therapy may be an important additional therapy that could be used to reduce noneosinophilic airway inflammation, particularly neutrophilic inflammation, in asthma. Clinical trial registered with the Australian Clinical Trials Registry www.actr.org.au (No. 12605000318684).
In this pilot study of patients with corticosteroid-dependent asthma, 6-week clarithromycin 500 mg BID was clinically effective in allowing a reduction in prednisone dosage, without worsening pulmonary function, QOL, or asthmatic symptoms. In addition, clarithromycin was well tolerated, with only 1 patient discontinuing therapy due to treatment-related nausea.
When added to regular treatment, a 3-wk course of clarithromycin was associated with an increase in the number of symptom-free days, reductions in the number and severity of days with loss of control following index episode, and a decrease in the duration of the initial asthma exacerbation.
Long-term use of azithromycin can improve lung function, especially for P. aeruginosa-colonized CF patients. There was no evidence of increased adverse events with azithromycin. More data are needed to verify the best azithromycin regimen and to evaluate other macrolides in CF patients.
Macrolide administration for asthma for three or more weeks was not associated with improvement in FEV1, but produced significant improvements in peak expiratory flow, symptoms, quality of life, and airway hyper-reactivity. Macrolides may therefore be beneficial as adjunct asthma therapy. Future trials, focusing on long-term safety and effectiveness, should use standardized outcomes and procedures.
While the completely edentulous patient seems to be at risk for multiple systemic disorders, whether development of these disorders is causal or casual has not been determined. To minimize the loss of residual alveolar ridges, exemplary complete denture therapy, along with the establishment of routine recall systems, should be the ultimate goal of treatment of this patient cohort.
While there was a downward trend in edentulism between 1999 and 2008, significant variations existed across racial/ethnic groups. Innovative public health programs and services are essential to prevent oral health diseases and conditions for minority populations who lack access to adequate dental care. Additionally, given the increasing numbers of adults retaining their natural teeth, interventions designed to assist individuals in maintaining healthy teeth becomes more critical.
Several intervention practices were well accepted and adopted and were associated with improved adequacy of energy and nutrient intakes from the complementary diet. Such improvements were attributed mainly to greater total intakes and, to a lesser extent, enhanced dietary quality of the complementary foods.
Educational interventions directed both at identified individuals and the community in general in small communities with poor water quality is a way of giving communities the skills and knowledge to manage their own drinking water quality. This may also have important and sustainable health benefits, though further research preferably using a randomised control trial design is needed.
Media framing obscured the discussion of some of the underlying policy goals in this case and failed to highlight issues which are now significant barriers to the use of the legislation. Using the media to engage the public in more in-depth exploration of the policy issues at stake may contribute to a more informed policy development process. The media can be an effective channel for those stakeholders with a weaker voice in policy deliberations to raise public attention to particular issues; however, the political and institutional context must be taken into account as it may outweigh media framing effects.
Nurses and midwives have a crucial role in communicating positive views on breastfeeding to new mothers at different time points. Future interventions to promote breastfeeding could adopt a broad social approach, encouraging positive norms for existing and potential mothers and fathers, families and people in general.
Findings from this study suggested that TPB is an appropriate theory for explaining the effect of psychosocial factors such as knowledge, attitudes, self-efficacy, subjective norms, and intentions on infant feeding behaviors, and a useful guideline to design the targets and key approaches for infant feeding interventions.
HRQoL was associated with physical fitness, especially aerobic fitness, and to a lesser extent with reported physical activity. These findings underline the importance of physical fitness for HRQoL in CF and provide an additional rationale for exercise testing in this population.
Verbal and written guidelines for aerobic exercise, together with supervision over the telephone, had a positive impact on the self-reported regular physical exercise practice of children and adolescents. However, no improvement was found in lung function and maximum exercise capacity or domains of the quality of life questionnaire.
Children and adolescents with CF present postural changes when compared with healthy individuals. The educational guideline for exercise practice helped to improve posture, preventing the progression of some postural disorders.
A partially supervised training over 6 months improved FEV1 but effects were basically gone 18 months off training. Regular long-term training should be promoted as essential part of treatment in CF.
A training effect, as measured by a reduction in lactate levels and heart rate, can be achieved with unsupervised individualised home exercise in adults with cystic fibrosis. A benefit to pulmonary function was observed and together these findings suggest that exercise programmes should be encouraged as an important component of care in cystic fibrosis.
Pulmonary function declined more slowly in the exercise group than in the control group, suggesting a benefit for patients with CF participating in regular aerobic exercise. Consistent compliance with the home exercise program and a self-reported positive attitude toward exercise provide further evidence of the feasibility and value of including an aerobic exercise program in the conventional treatment regimen of patients with CF.
NMES training performed prior to endurance training is useful for strengthening peripheral muscles, which in turn may augment gains in body weight and quality of life, further reductions in ventilation requirements during exercise, and retard insulin resistance in patients with CF with severe pulmonary obstruction.
Ultrasound guidance improves the success rate of subclavian venous catheterization performed by less experienced operators. There were no major complications in either group. Ultrasound guidance is usually successful in allowing performance of subclavian venous catheterizations when landmark techniques fail.
Patients treated for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis appeared to function well with regard to marital status and number of children. The scoliotic curve did not seem to increase as a result of childbearing. Minor problems occurred during pregnancy and delivery. Some patients, however, experienced a slight negative effect in their sexual life.
More than 20 years after brace treatment for AIS, minimal pain and no dysfunction occurred compared with normal controls. Compared with surgically treated patients with a mean end result similar to this group, no significant differences were found except that BT patients experience more affective components of their pain.
The TAPS is a valid instrument for evaluating the perception patients have of their trunk deformity. It shows excellent distribution of scores, internal consistency, and test-retest reliability, and has good capacity to differentiate the severity of the disease. It is simple and easy to complete and score, the figures are natural, and a new frontal view is included.
Patients with a double curve pattern in which the thoracic curve is >35 degrees and the LPR angle is >12 degrees are significantly more likely to demonstrate curve progression. In-brace correction for double curves of at least 25% and a patient's ability to wear the orthosis >18 hours/day significantly increased the likelihood of success.
No evidence has been found in terms of prospective controlled studies to support surgical intervention from the medical point of view. In the light of the unknown long-term effects of surgery and in concluding on the lack of evidence already found that surgery might change the signs and symptoms of scoliosis, a randomized controlled trial (RCT) is long overdue. Until such a time that such evidence exists, there can be no medical indication for surgery. The indications for surgery are limited for cosmetic reasons in severe cases and only if the patient and the family agree with this.
All tonicities of colistin caused equal symptoms of chest tightness and reduction in pulmonary function. It is recommended that the patient is challenged with nebulised colistin before prescription of the drug and that the challenge is preceded by an inhaled bronchodilator. Most of the patients preferred the isotonic or hypotonic solutions. The isotonic solution reflects a fall in FEV1 representative of all the solutions. The fall in FEV1 to the hypotonic solution occurred over a longer period and may be better tolerated by some patients.
These results indicate that multivalent cations such as calcium should be maximally separated from oral levofloxacin administration in adult patients with cystic fibrosis to prevent this drug interaction, thereby better optimizing antibiotic efficacy and decreasing the potential for resistance development.
Our study was designed to overcome the shortcomings of previous double-blinded trials of household water treatment in low-income settings. The sample size was larger, the follow-up period longer, both urban and rural populations were included, and adherence and water quality were monitored extensively over time. These results provide no evidence that the intervention was protective against diarrhoea. Low compliance and modest reduction in water contamination may have contributed to the lack of effect. However, our findings are consistent with other blinded studies of similar interventions and raise additional questions about the actual health impact of household water treatment under these conditions.
In areas of turbid water, flocculant-disinfectant was associated with a significant reduction in diarrhoea among children < 2 years. This health benefit, combined with a significant reduction in turbidity, suggests that the flocculant-disinfectant is well suited to areas with highly contaminated and turbid water.
Despite an extensive SODIS promotion campaign we found only moderate compliance with the intervention and no strong evidence for a substantive reduction in diarrhoea among children. These results suggest that there is a need for better evidence of how the well-established laboratory efficacy of this home-based water treatment method translates into field effectiveness under various cultural settings and intervention intensities. Further global promotion of SODIS for general use should be undertaken with care until such evidence is available.
To our knowledge this is the first post-intervention follow-up study of a combined household water treatment and handwashing behaviour change intervention, and the first post-intervention follow-up of either intervention type to include child health measurement. The lack of child health impacts is consistent with unsustained behaviour adoption. Our findings highlight the difficulty of implementing behaviour-based household water treatment and handwashing outside of intensive efficacy trials.
Results confirm the usefulness of solar disinfection in reducing risk of water borne disease in children. Point of consumption solar disinfection can be done with minimal resources, which are readily available, and may be an important first line response to cholera outbreaks. Its potential in chorine resistant cholera merits further investigation.
Randomization resulted in comparable study arms. Recently, several critical reviews raised major concerns on the reliability of open health intervention trials, because of uncertain sustainability and non-blinding bias. In this regard, the presented trial featuring objective outcome measures, a simultaneous intervention in the control communities and a 12-month follow up period will provide valuable evidence.
The findings in this study may help refine the approach to future water, sanitation, and hygiene initiatives in northern Pakistan. The integrated approach taken by WASEP, which incorporates engineering solutions with appropriate education to maximize facility usage and improve hygiene practices, is a useful example of how desired health benefits can be obtained from projects of this type.
The present study has for the first time confirmed that these bacterial pathogens are inactivated by storage in a copper vessel within 24 h. However, it has also demonstrated that it is necessary to account for short-term sub-lethal injury, manifest as ROS-sensitivity, in order to more fully understand the process. This has important practical implications in terms of the time required to store water within a copper vessel to completely inactivate these bacteria and thereby remove the risk of water-borne disease transmission by this route.
Although our results indicate that diarrhea incidence rates may be declining slightly, the total burden on the health of each child due to multiple episodes per year is tremendous and additional funds are needed to improve both prevention and treatment practices in low- and middle-income countries.
The results suggest that early surgical alignment is associated with better stereopsis in those patients with infantile esotropia who were treated during the first 24 months of life, because early surgery minimizes the duration of misalignment, not because alignment is achieved during an early critical period of visual maturation. Random dot stereopsis can also be achieved in patients with alignment provided that the duration of misalignment is not prolonged. Improved outcomes of random dot stereopsis are associated with more stable long-term alignment outcomes.
Performing corrective surgery on patients with infantile esotropia leads to poorer surgical outcome if moderate amblyopia is present at the time of surgery. Mild amblyopia, however, does not adversely affect surgical outcome in patients with infantile esotropia. Furthermore, the presence of mild or moderate amblyopia does not appear to have an influence on surgical outcome for patients with acquired esotropia. The effect of amblyopia on sensory outcome was not studied as most patients were too young for reliable sensory testing.
Intermittent exotropia was the most common form of divergent strabismus in this population. Exotropia associated with an abnormal CNS, convergence insufficiency, and sensory exotropia were also relatively common, whereas the congenital, paralytic, and late-resolving neonatal forms were uncommon.
Visual acuity and near stereoacuity were generally good. There was little change in the mean angle of deviation from initial to final visit for the group, with a nearly chance occurrence for the distance deviation to progressively worsen or improve, perhaps explaining why strabismologists have had difficulty definitively prognosticating about the long-term stability of intermittent exotropia.
Ocular alignment did not require the development of binocularity mechanisms, and the development of binocularity mechanisms did not await the onset of good ocular alignment. The relatively sudden onset of binocularity, both sensory (preference for fusion and stereopsis) and motor (convergence) at about 3 months of age and the high correlation between these measures indicate a common causal mechanism that probably involves refinements in striate cortex circuitry.
By deriving a unique formula that converts doses to chlorpromazine or haloperidol equivalents, we can compare otherwise dissimilar drugs. These equivalents can be multiplied by the time an individual has been on a given dose to derive a cumulative value measured in dose-years in the form of (chlorpromazine equivalent in mg) x (time on dose measured in years). After each dose has been converted to dose-years, the results can be summed to provide a cumulative quantitative measure of lifetime exposure.
The relative measures of treatment effectiveness remain reasonably constant across different scale-derived definitions of response and, in conjunction with varying control event rates, can give accurate estimates of NNTs for individuals with schizophrenia.
The efficacy of ibuprofen and indomethacin in PDA treatment is similar. Treatment of ibuprofen and indomethacin may cause transient renal dysfunction: diminished urine output and increase of serum creatinine and urea nitrogen concentrations. Indomethacin, especially with concomitant treatment with hydrocortisone, may increase the risk of intestinal perforation.
In very low birth weight infants, the rate of early ductal closure with oral ibuprofen is at least as good as with the intravenous route. Ductal closure may be obtained with an incomplete course of ibuprofen. Oral ibuprofen is associated with fewer adverse effects. However, a larger sample is needed for more definitive conclusions.
Preterm infants who were treated with oral ibuprofen for patent ductus arteriosus had similar neurological, neurosensory, and cognitive outcomes to patients who received intravenous ibuprofen at 2 years of age.
Oral ibuprofen is more effective than intravenous ibuprofen for ductal closure in VLBW infants. The increase in the cystatin-C level with oral treatment suggests that patients with borderline renal function should be evaluated and followed closely.
Ibuprofen is as effective as indometacin for the early-targeted PDA treatment in extremely premature infants, without increasing the incidence of complications. When the echocardiographic PDA flow pattern was used as a guide for PDA treatment, fewer doses of drugs were needed to achieve acceptable closing rates.
In extremely-low-birth-weight infants, prophylaxis with indomethacin does not improve the rate of survival without neurosensory impairment at 18 months, despite the fact that it reduces the frequency of patent ductus arteriosus and severe periventricular and intraventricular hemorrhage.
Incomplete closure of the ductus arteriosus is associated with recurrence of a clinically significant patent ductus arteriosus and reopening of the ductus after initial closure with indomethacin is associated with chronic lung disease.
Administration of three doses of ibuprofen within 3 hours after birth in preterm neonates reduced the incidence of PDA without causing notable early adverse drug reactions in this phase I trial. Early closure of the ductus arteriosus was also associated with better respiratory outcome and earlier discharge from the hospital.
Osteoporosis appears to be widespread in patients with end-stage respiratory failure before LTx and LTx, while often life-saving, has an adverse impact on BMD. As patients live longer after LTx, osteoporosis-related fractures may compromise quality of life by causing pain and debilitation.
Low BMD was present in a significant proportion of CF patients, independent of sex and age. BMD depended on pulmonary function, steroid dose, and presence of advanced liver disease. Pulmonary function and puberty were the main stimuli for the increase of BMD over time. CF also altered body composition, and FFM was influenced by pulmonary function.
BMD was normal in a well nourished group of prepubertal children with CF. A BMD deficit appears to evolve during adolescence and becomes more marked in adults. Individuals with CF should optimise nutrition, partake in physical activity, and maximise lung health in order to optimise BMD. Further longitudinal studies are required to understand the evolution of reduced BMD in young people and adults with CF.
Inadequate bone mass accrual during childhood and adolescence contributes to the low bone mass observed in adults with CF. Accounting for the height discrepancy which is frequently observed in those with CF, in addition to age and sex, is important when assessing low bone mass in children and adolescents with CF. To optimise an individual's potential to acquire maximal bone mass, it is necessary to maximise nutritional status and limit the progression of chronic suppurative lung disease.
The highest level of evidence, RCTs, suggests little or no increase in risk of upper GI tract problems if bisphosphonates are administered properly. Upper GI tract symptoms are common among patients with osteoporosis. The evidence suggests that many upper GI tract AEs reported during therapy with bisphosphonates may reflect a high background incidence of upper GI tract complaints and an increased sensitivity to detection rather than a causal relationship to therapy.
Women with multiple risk factors and low bone density have an especially high risk of hip fracture. Maintaining body weight, walking for exercise, avoiding long-acting benzodiazepines, minimizing caffeine intake, and treating impaired visual function are among the steps that may decrease the risk.
The carriers of genotypes, which are associated with higher TNF-α production, demonstrated increased frequency of asthma, higher levels of neutrophil elastase, and decrease of bone density. On the contrary, the carriers of genotypes associated with low TNF-α production showed a higher frequency of tuberculosis infection.
Blood concentration of prednisolone achieved after a dose of 1.5 mg kg-1 are sufficient to suppress monocyte TNF-alpha release and cause a biphasic change in peripheral blood monocyte numbers. Suppression of TNF-alpha is principally a direct glucocorticoid effect, rather than a consequence of other prednisolone-induced changes to blood composition.
Patients in the early group and delayed group both demonstrated very similar outcomes and range of motion at 1 year. There was a slightly higher rotator cuff healing rate in the delayed passive range of motion group compared with the early passive range of motion group (91% vs 85%).
Arthroscopic repair of small and medium full-thickness rotator cuff tears results in reliable improvements in clinical outcomes and a high rate of tendon integrity using a double-row repair technique in patients under the age of sixty-five years. There is no apparent advantage or disadvantage of early passive range of motion compared with immobilization with regard to healing or functional outcome.
Rotator cuff repair for full-thickness tears produces net societal cost savings for patients under the age of sixty-one years and greater QALYs for all patients. Rotator cuff repair is cost-effective for all populations. The results of this study should not be interpreted as suggesting that all rotator cuff tears require surgery. Rather, the results show that rotator cuff repair has an important role in minimizing the societal burden of rotator cuff disease.
Parents perceive AOM to be a burden for their child and families, particularly the pain and disturbed sleep due to AOM, and this disease had a significant effect on parents' ability to attend work. Given how common AOM is, this loss of workdays may lead to substantial financial burden for families and the society. Antibiotics were almost invariably used in all countries despite current guidelines.
Overall antibiotic prescription rates for ARTI decreased, associated with fewer OM visits in children younger than 5 years and with fewer prescriptions for ARTI for which antibiotics are rarely indicated. However, prescription rates for broad-spectrum antibiotics increased significantly.
The risk of a prolonged course was 2 times higher for children < 2 years of age with bilateral acute otitis media than for children > or = 2 years of age with unilateral acute otitis media. Clinicians can use these features (ie, age of < 2 years and bilateral acute otitis media) to inform parents more explicitly about the expected course of their child's otitis media and to explain which features should prompt parents to contact their clinician for reexamination of the child.
Ibuprofen, paracetamol and placebo have similar tolerability and safety profiles in terms of gastrointestinal symptoms, asthma and renal adverse effects. While the study data investigated here may not reflect over-the-counter use, these results are still relevant in the context of any safety concerns relating to general ibuprofen or paracetamol treatment in children.
No overall significant improvement in fat absorption could be demonstrated with adjuvant therapy. Fat absorption measured by 3-day fat-balance studies varied greatly even when comparing the same subject for placebo and baseline treatments, despite identical dietary fat and enzyme intakes. The large variability limited our ability to test for a difference in fat absorption and has significant implication for the use of this test, considered the gold standard, for determining enzyme dosage adequacy.
In this short-term study in a selected, small study population with SAC, ketotifen and olopatadine diminished the expression of CAMs and inflammatory markers on the conjunctival surface cells effectively. Both active treatments were more efficacious compared with ATS and were well tolerated.
Topical azelastine progressively improved itching and conjunctival redness in PAC patients compared to placebo and was at least as effective as levocabastine. Rapid relief is consistent with H(1)-receptor antagonist action, while continued improvement up to 6 weeks may be consistent with mechanisms involving other mediators of allergic inflammation.
Both objective assessments and subjective symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis showed the greatest improvements when patients were treated with combined therapy as compared to single-agent therapy. The enhanced benefits of combined therapy may result from these agents having different mechanisms of action.
Six weeks' instillation of olopatadine 0.19% ophthalmic solution BID had a significantly greater effect on the ocular signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis compared with 6 weeks' instillation of cromolyn 2% ophthalmic solution QID. Both treatments were well tolerated by patients in all age groups; however, olopatadine appeared to have better local tolerability in children aged <11 years.
In an environmental setting, ketotifen fumarate 0.025% ophthalmic solution was well tolerated and effective in reducing the signs and symptoms of SAC, and in preventing their recurrence. Ketotifen consistently showed the best efficacy in comparison with both placebo and levocabastine. These results indicate that ketotifen eye drops are a valuable treatment option for this condition.
Emedastine 0.05% eye drops administered twice daily are more efficacious than levocabastine 0.05% eye drops in the prevention and treatment of the signs and symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis in adults and children of 4 years and above. Both emedastine 0.05% eye drops and levocabastine 0.05% eye drops were well tolerated.
In patients with SAC, olopatadine, ketotifen, epinastine and emedastine are more efficacious than fluorometholone acetate in preventing itching and redness. All the antiallergic agents gave similar results in terms of reducing tearing, chemosis and eyelid swelling. Our data showed that impression cytology parameters improved after treatment with antiallergic agents in patients with SAC.
Mepolizumab treatment does not appear to add significant clinical benefit in patients with asthma with persistent symptoms despite inhaled corticosteroid therapy. Further studies are needed to investigate the effect of mepolizumab on exacerbation rates, using protocols specifically tailored to patients with asthma with persistent airway eosinophilia.
Mepolizumab therapy reduces exacerbations and improves AQLQ scores in patients with refractory eosinophilic asthma. The results of our study suggest that eosinophils have a role as important effector cells in the pathogenesis of severe exacerbations of asthma in this patient population. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN75169762.)
Using supervised cluster analysis helped identify specific patient characteristics related to disease and therapeutic response. Patients with eosinophilic inflammation received significant therapeutic benefit with mepolizumab, and responses differed within clusters. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
In otherwise healthy preterm infants, palivizumab treatment resulted in a significant reduction in wheezing days during the first year of life, even after the end of treatment. These findings implicate RSV infection as an important mechanism of recurrent wheeze during the first year of life in such infants. (Funded by Abbott Laboratories and by the Netherlands Organization for Health Research and Development; MAKI Controlled Clinical Trials number, ISRCTN73641710.).
Patients who benefit most when omalizumab is administered as add-on therapy are those receiving high doses of BDP, those with a history of frequent emergency asthma treatment, and those with poor lung function. Patients should be treated with omalizumab for a minimum duration of 12 weeks.
Daclizumab improved pulmonary function and asthma control in patients with moderate to severe chronic asthma inadequately controlled on ICS. The mechanism of action likely involves inhibition of proinflammatory cytokine generation by IL-2R blockade in activated T cells. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
AMG 317 did not demonstrate clinical efficacy across the overall group of patients. Clinically significant improvements were observed in several outcome measures in patients with higher baseline ACQ scores. AMG 317 was safe and well tolerated in this study population. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
Although well tolerated, GSK679586 did not demonstrate clinically meaningful improvements in asthma control, pulmonary function, or exacerbations in patients with severe asthma. Further studies are needed to determine whether therapies targeting IL-13, the functionally related IL-4 cytokine, or both can provide clinical benefit in patients with severe refractory asthma or a subpopulation of these patients beyond that achievable with high-dose corticosteroids.
Omalizumab negatively regulates FcεRI expression in patients with severe nonatopic asthma, as it does in severe atopic asthma. Omalizumab may have a therapeutic role in severe nonatopic asthma. Nonetheless, our preliminary findings support further investigation to better assess the clinical efficacy of omalizumab.
Treatment with AMG 157 reduced allergen-induced bronchoconstriction and indexes of airway inflammation before and after allergen challenge. These findings are consistent with a key role for TSLP in allergen-induced airway responses and persistent airway inflammation in patients with allergic asthma. Whether anti-TSLP therapeutics will have clinical value cannot be determined from these data. (Funded by Amgen; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The difference in exacerbation frequency between omalizumab and placebo was greatest in the three high-biomarker subgroups, probably associated with the greater risk for exacerbations in high subgroups. Additional studies are required to explore the value of these biomarkers in clinical practice. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
GSK679586 demonstrated dose-dependent pharmacological activity in the lungs of mild intermittent asthmatics. These findings, together with the favourable safety profile and advantageous PK characteristics of a monoclonal antibody (e.g. a long half-life supporting less frequent dosing), warrant further investigation of GSK679586 in a broader asthma patient population.
In patients with inadequately controlled severe persistent asthma, despite high-dose ICS and LABA therapy, and often additional therapy, omalizumab significantly reduced the rate of clinically significant asthma exacerbations, severe exacerbations and emergency visits. Omalizumab is effective and should be considered as add-on therapy for patients with inadequately controlled severe persistent asthma who have a significant unmet need despite best available therapy.
In patients with inadequately controlled severe persistent asthma, day-to-day symptoms correlate well with QoL. Add-on omalizumab significantly improves day-to-day symptoms compared with placebo. Further improvement in responders confirms the physician's assessment as a response measure.
Adding omalizumab to BSC is efficacious in patients with inadequately controlled severe persistent allergic asthma despite high-dose ICS plus a LABA (EU label population), with further efficacy observed in patients judged to have responded to therapy which may more accurately illustrate the actual benefit of omalizumab therapy in clinical practice. The naturalistic setting of this study confirms the benefits observed in double-blind randomized clinical trials.
Omalizumab therapy decreases basophil histamine release and cellular sensitivity with high effectivity of 95.8% (median). The decline of ex vivo basophil responses does not always parallel individual clinical improvement. Basophil-based stimulation tests should be further evaluated before being regarded as useful parameters monitoring omalizumab therapy.
Serum levels of sICAM-1 are higher in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis, even outside of the pollen season when the allergen does not naturally exist. Seasonal changes in serum sICAM-1 as well as sIL-2R and specific IgE are probably objective markers to indicate the clinical efficacy of antihistamines and immunotherapy on seasonal allergic rhinitis.
In subjects with allergic asthma, omalizumab reduces the response to AMP without decreasing the response to methacholine. These findings are consistent with the conclusion that the contribution of IgE to the development of AMP bronchoconstriction is more important than their role in the induction of methacholine hyperresponsiveness.
Our data suggest that current inactivated vaccine is highly effective for protection against influenza type A(H3N2) virus infection regardless of antigenic drift. In contrast, the protective efficacy obtained by vaccination may not be sufficient against influenza type B virus infection, and especially in young children, it does not offer protection.
In patients with persistent, moderate-to-severe asthma and elevated eosinophil levels who used inhaled glucocorticoids and LABAs, dupilumab therapy, as compared with placebo, was associated with fewer asthma exacerbations when LABAs and inhaled glucocorticoids were withdrawn, with improved lung function and reduced levels of Th2-associated inflammatory markers. (Funded by Sanofi and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The working group participants propose that the definition of "asthma exacerbation" be "a worsening of asthma requiring the use of systemic corticosteroids to prevent a serious outcome." As core outcomes, they propose inclusion and separate reporting of several essential variables of an exacerbation. Furthermore, they propose the development of a standardized, component-based definition of "exacerbation" with clear thresholds of severity for each component.
Childhood psychotic symptoms were not specific to a diagnosis of schizophrenia in adulthood and thus future studies of early symptoms should be cautious in extrapolating findings only to this clinical disorder. However, these symptoms may be useful as a marker of adult mental health problems more broadly.
The prevalence of mood disorders reported in high-quality studies is generally lower than rates commonly reported in the general psychiatric literature. When controlled for common methodological confounds, variation in prevalence rates persists across studies and deserves continued study. Methodological variation among studies that have examined the prevalence of depression in primary health care services is so large that comparative analyses cannot be achieved.
After tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy procedures, despite reduced postoperative vomiting with use of propofol rather than halothane, along with nitrous oxide for anesthetic maintenance, the authors found no differences in "true" endpoints such as unplanned admissions or discharge times. Among the groups, the main factor that delayed hospital discharge beyond 6 h was vomiting within the first 6 h.
A reduction in the proportion of arrests related to cardiovascular depression due to halothane may be related to the declining use of halothane in pediatric anesthetic practice. The incidence of the most common remaining causes of arrest in each category may be reduced through preventive measures.
CT angiography seems to be a promising exam to confirm BD. However, the divergence with cerebral angiography is significant mainly concerning A2-ACA, which are proximal. It may be possible to only use the absence of opacification of M4-MCA, P2-PCA, basilar artery, and venous blood return to remain in conformity with the French law. In all cases, the international medical community should obtain a consensus for the interpretation of CT angiography to use it extensively as a complementary exam for BD.
At present only cerebral angiography and nuclear medicine tests of perfusion are accepted by Canadian standards, but computed tomography and magnetic resonance angiography should prove to be suitable. Transcranial Doppler studies may be suitable for specific cases once appropriate guidelines are established.
The hazard for catheter-related complications--phlebitis, catheter-related infections, and mechanical complications--did not increase during prolonged catheterization. The recommendation for routine replacement of peripheral intravenous catheters should be reevaluated considering the additional cost and discomfort to the patient.
Use of intermittent heparin flushes at doses of 10 U/ml in peripheral venous catheters locked between use had no benefit over normal saline flush. Infusion of low dose heparin through a peripheral arterial catheter prolonged the duration of patency but further study is needed to establish its benefit for peripheral venous catheters.
Our study is a first in investigating the combined use of large volume low pressure nasal saline and fluticasone propionate in acute pediatric rhinosinusitis, and the results reveal that the combination therapy was effective. Low pressure large volume nasal saline+fluticasone propionate combination can be employed as a new line of therapy for the treatment of pediatric acute rhinosinusitis, either by itself or combined with standard therapy.
No significant difference in efficacy of pain control or improvement of disability between the naproxen and acetaminophen groups suggests no preferential advantage for naproxen over acetaminophen for MSK injuries when given on a regular basis, with concurrent supportive treatment. Possible differential benefit from intermittent therapy needs to be evaluated among children with ankle injury.
The design and quality of the studies appear to be strong independent predictors of the risk estimate; cohort studies were associated with lower risk estimates than case-control studies, and satisfactory studies were associated with lower risk estimates than unsatisfactory studies.
These findings suggest that NSAIDs can induce or exacerbate reproducible symptoms (depression, paranoia) in patients with either affective disorder or schizophrenia. These adverse effects may be more severe and frequent than thought previously. NSAID-treated patients should be studied for NSAID-induced psychiatric side effects.
This study shows that routine health sector data collections in defined populations can provide useful information on the size, distribution, and characteristics of the problem of sport and active recreation injuries at the community level. However, all current health sector systems for injury data collection and surveillance require attention to improve case capture and identification and data quality.
Toddlers and preschoolers who have CF and received BEH were able to meet the energy intake recommendations for this disease and maintain these gains up to 12 months after treatment. In addition, these children demonstrated weight and height velocities from pretreatment to 12-month follow-up, consistent with the goal of normal growth. BEH is a promising, evidence-based, early nutritional intervention for children with CF. An upcoming multisite clinical trial will test BEH versus an attention control condition using a larger sample (N = 100), providing additional evidence about the efficacy of this treatment for energy intake and growth in young children with CF.
In sum, the results of the current study indicate that the STARBRIGHT CD-ROM program is a promising intervention for increasing CF-related knowledge and the competence of children's and adolescents' coping strategies. These positive results are enhanced by the brief, inexpensive, and portable nature of this educational program.
Couple screening allows carriers to avoid transient high levels of anxiety, but is associated with more anxiety and false reassurance among most screenees who will test negative. Stepwise screening gives carriers and their relatives genetic information and is, in our opinion, the better method.
All interventions were effective in producing weight gain in patients with CF. Behavioral intervention appeared to be as effective in improving weight gain in patients with CF as more invasive medical procedures. These findings support continued research on nutrition intervention with patients with CF including controlled clinical trials of the interventions and long-term follow-up on the impact of nutrition on disease progression.
1. The widely accepted hypothesis that ambulatory care is cheaper than hospital care is--at least in the German setting--not a-priori true. 2. In the treatment of CF patients incentive failures exist which induce unnecessary and avoidable hospital stays if the perspective of the statutory sickness funds is dominant. 3. Changes in system conditions as e.g. the permission of mail-order pharmacies might help to implement a more rational allocation of resources.
EE may be higher than usual for the patients with CF and CFDM during periods of recovery from mild exercise or activity because of increased work of breathing consistent with higher ventilatory requirements. This information may be useful for patients receiving nutritional counseling who may choose to exercise regularly, but are concerned about possible weight loss.
Adjuvant psychological interventions for pediatric chronic illnesses appear in general to be efficacious, associated with a large mean ES across a range of outcome variables. However, until more studies have been completed using stronger research designs, only tentative conclusions can be drawn.
Compared with nondepressed patients, the odds are 3 times greater that depressed patients will be noncompliant with medical treatment recommendations. Recommendations for future research include attention to causal inferences and exploration of mechanisms to explain the effects. Evidence of strong covariation of depression and medical noncompliance suggests the importance of recognizing depression as a risk factor for poor outcomes among patients who might not be adhering to medical advice.
The multi-method measurement approach provided unique information regarding rates of adherence for each disease condition by type of treatment component. Accurately measuring rates of treatment adherence for children with CF is an important step in developing effective interventions to influence these behaviors.
Treatment of patients with CIDP using high-dose intermittent IVMP results in improved strength equal to that with IVIg and oral prednisone. The frequency of occurrences of weight gain and cushingoid features with IVMP is less than that with oral prednisone. Intravenous methylprednisolone should be considered for initial and long-term therapy in CIDP when patients have disability due to weakness.
The long term prognosis of CIDP patients was generally favourable, but 39% of patients still required immune treatments and 13% had severe disabilities. Mode of onset, distribution of symptoms, and electrophysiological characteristics may be prognostic factors for predicting a favourable outcome.
Serum PCT is a more reliable biologic marker than the ESR, CRP, or leukocyte count for the early prediction of RPI in children with a first episode of urinary tract infection. In addition, the greater the elevation of PCT at admission, the more positive the correlation for subsequent permanent renal damage.
Parenchymal damage found in a minority of infants with febrile UTI presented promptly to the hospital. Acute phase DMSA scan should be carried out only in selected patients. An abnormal acute DMSA scan is a moderate predictor for dilated VUR and its ability to exclude VUR is restricted.
Our results indicate the superior diagnostic accuracy of procalcitonin for predicting acute pyelonephritis in children 2 years old or younger. Higher initial and posttreatment procalcitonin values are independent risk factors for later renal scarring.
Renal scars after first pyelonephritis are in most cases not associated with abnormalities of the urinary tract, but are caused by the infection itself. However, structural abnormalities may predispose to recurrent infections. Following pyelonephritis new renal scars may develop in all age groups in both sexes.
Fever was the main symptom. E. coli was the most commonly isolated microorganism. Nitrituria had low sensitivity in infants. Ultrasonography had low specificity. Scintigraphy showed the highest sensitivity and specificity in the detection of renal scarring. Predictability improved when scintigraphy was performed a few months after acute infection.
Bacterial virulence factors and host factors are associated with the occurrence of acute pyelonephritis. Host factors such as patient age and vesicoureteral reflux severity modify the influence of virulence factors, although only host factors are associated with the occurrence of renal scarring.
We found a high incidence of renal involvement in children with their first acute febrile urinary tract infection. The cortical scintigraphy is more sensitive than ultrasonography in detecting renal changes. The incidence of vesicoureteral reflux in febrile urinary tract infection is high. When there is a renal cortical defect the risk of reflux is higher. This suggests that cortical scintigraphy should be added to the initial examination of children with their first acute febrile urinary tract infection and this could be supplemented by voiding cystourethrography alone, with ultrasonography having a secondary role.
PCT offers better specificity than CRP for differentiating between the viral and bacterial etiology of the fever with similar sensitivity. PCT offers better sensibility and specificity than CRP to differentiate between invasive and noninvasive infection. PCT is confirmed as an excellent marker in detecting invasive infections in ED and can even make early detection possible of invasive infections if the evolution of the fever is <12 h. The PCT-Q test has a good correlation with the quantitative values of the marker.
Findings of this study showed that ESR and differential leukocyte count are two valuable tests in febrile UTI and may be useful for localization of UTI level, but the total leukocyte count and CRP level as in qualitative methods are not useful, and many patients with febrile UTI do not have leukocytosis.
Since vesicoureteral reflux is the common risk factor for acute scintigraphic lesion and ultimate scar formation, voiding cystourethrogram must be considered as an initial study in patients with acute febrile urinary tract infection.
C-reactive protein can be used as a predictor of permanent renal damage in infants with urinary tract infection and together with anteroposterior diameter serves as a basis for an imaging algorithm.
There was a significant relationship between grade II vesicoureteral reflux and higher and permanent renal damage in boys and girls. However, while the association between renal damage and vesicoureteral reflux was evident in boys, the role of urinary tract infection and renal inflammation seemed to be equally or more important in girls. These findings support the concept that renal damage is associated with vesicoureteral reflux and is often congenital in boys, while in girls it is more related to urinary tract infection with vesicoureteral reflux as a reinforcing factor.
Pediatric UTIs constitute a significant health burden on society. Available data do not allow a full accounting of costs due to a lack of information regarding outpatient expenses, as well as the cost of ancillary evaluation and treatment. However, the magnitude of the burden suggests the importance of further research and data collection of health care utilization in the pediatric population.
We concluded that tramadol can have at least the same analgesic effect as that of ilioinguinal and iliohypogastric nerve blocks for post-herniorrhaphy pain in children, with even a superior effect at the time of maximal analgesia. We also highlight the troublesome side-effect of nausea and vomiting which brings into question the benefits of using this opioid that seems to lack respiratory depression.
  The prevalence of moderate-severe pain in hospitalized children remains high. Analgesia regimens may not be optimal. Underutilization of regional anesthesia techniques may have contributed to increased pain scores. A large proportion of children diagnosed with moderate-severe pain may have persistent clinically significant pain in subsequent days.
The efficacy of tramadol for the management of moderate to severe postoperative pain has been demonstrated in both inpatients and day surgery patients. Most importantly, unlike other opioids, tramadol has no clinically relevant effects on respiratory or cardiovascular parameters. Tramadol may prove particularly useful in patients with poor cardiopulmonary function, including the elderly, the obese and smokers, in patients with impaired hepatic or renal function, and in patients in whom nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are not recommended or need to be used with caution. Parenteral or oral tramadol has proved to be an effective and well tolerated analgesic agent in the perioperative setting.
Tonsillectomy carries a high risk from a medical malpractice standpoint for the anesthesiologists and otolaryngologists. Although surgery-related claims were more common, opioids- and anesthetic-related claims were associated with larger median monetary verdicts, especially those associated with anoxic, nonfatal injuries. Caution is necessary when opioids are prescribed post-tonsillectomy, especially in patients with sleep apnea.
Tissue oxygen index derived from near-infrared spectroscopy is a useful real-time monitor for detecting inadequate cerebral perfusion during cardiopulmonary bypass. Minimal safe pump flow rate varies according to the conditions of bypass: using pH stat management and with an hematocrit of either 20% or 30%, a flow rate as low as 10 mL.kg(-1).min(-1) is safe for as long as 2 hours at a temperature of 15 degrees C. However, under the same conditions at 34 degrees C, a flow rate of 10 mL.kg(-1).min(-1) is very likely to be associated with neurologic injury.
Cerebral oxygenation was maintained during regional cerebral perfusion at prebypass levels with deep hypothermia. However, after rewarming and separation from cardiopulmonary bypass, cerebral oxygenation was lower compared with prebypass or somatic values. These results indicate that cerebrovascular resistance is increased after deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass, even with continuous perfusion techniques, placing the cerebral circulation at risk postoperatively.
Cognitive dysfunction is common in adult patients of all ages at hospital discharge after major noncardiac surgery, but only the elderly (aged 60 yr or older) are at significant risk for long-term cognitive problems. Patients with POCD are at an increased risk of death in the first year after surgery.
Monitoring of regional cerebral tissue oxygen saturation by using near-infrared spectroscopy during selective antegrade cerebral perfusion allows detection of clinically important cerebral desaturation. It can help predict perioperative neurologic sequelae. Its performance as a diagnostic instrument is satisfying and supports its use as a noninvasive trend monitor of cerebral saturation.
A sustained drop in rSO2 during aortic surgery is closely related to the occurrence of neurological events following surgery. We recommend that recovery of drop in rSO2 below 55% should be addressed without delay. However, use of NIRS is limited for detecting embolic events or hypoperfusion in the basilar region.
Intraoperative cerebral oxygen desaturation is associated with early postoperative neuropsychological dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. However, it remains to be determined whether interventions to maintain adequate cerebral oxygenation may improve neuropsychological outcome.
Pediatric PH is characterized by various age-specific diagnoses, the majority of which comprise transient forms of PAH. Incidence of pediatric iPAH is lower whereas incidence of pediatric PAH-CHD is higher than reported in adults. Pediatric PAH-CHD represents a heterogeneous group with highly variable clinical courses.
Zinc did not affect time to pneumonia resolution or treatment failure, nor did type of respiratory pathogens affect outcomes. Higher basal zinc and better HAZ and WHZ were associated with reduced time to resolution of respiratory signs. These results suggest the need for prevention of chronic zinc deficiency and improvement of general nutritional status among Ecuadorian children.
This study used an expanded diagnostic armamentarium to define the broad spectrum of pathogens that cause pneumonia in hospitalized children. The data confirm the importance of S pneumoniae and the frequent occurrence of bacterial and viral coinfections in children with pneumonia. These findings will facilitate age-appropriate antibiotic selection and future evaluation of the clinical effectiveness of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine as well as other candidate vaccines.
The results of this study indicate that the incidence of early posttraumatic seizure can be effectively reduced by prophylactic administration of phenytoin for 1 or 2 weeks without a significant increase in drug-related side effects. Reduction in posttraumatic seizure during the 1st week, however, was not associated with a reduction in the mortality rate.
Valproate therapy shows no benefit over short-term phenytoin therapy for prevention of early seizures and neither treatment prevents late seizures. There was a trend toward a higher mortality rate among valproate-treated patients. The lack of additional benefit and the potentially higher mortality rate suggest that valproate should not be routinely used for the prevention of posttraumatic seizures.
Young children are more prone to early seizures, and adolescents and adults, to late seizures. The main risk factors for LPTSs are early seizures and depressed skull fracture. Severity of brain injury, as measured by a low GCS score, prolonged unconsciousness, and posttraumatic amnesia (PTA) without local brain lesion, should not be considered risk factor for LPTSs. Thorough follow-up of patients with TBI with seizures and adequate antiepileptic therapy may help attain rehabilitation goals and reemployment.
Valproate (VPA) appears to have a benign neuropsychological side effects profile, making it a cognitively safe antiepileptic drug to use for controlling established seizures or stabilizing mood. However, based on this study, VPA should not be used for prophylaxis of posttraumatic seizures because it does not prevent posttraumatic seizures, there was a trend toward more deaths in the VPA groups, and it did not have positive effects on cognition.
Stratification by CT scan findings and neurosurgical procedures performed were the most useful findings in defining individuals at highest risk for late posttraumatic seizures.
Both phenytoin and carbamazepine seem to have negative effects on cognitive performance, particularly on tasks with significant motor and speed components. Practice effects were noted and may account for much of the improvement when patients stopped taking the drugs. Overall effects of the drugs were small and of limited clinical significance, but differences among subjects were noted that may affect selection of a particular drug for the individual patient.
The failure to influence the risk of PTE in studies of patients with TBI are similar to findings of meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials on seizure prevention in other conditions, such as febrile seizures, cerebral malaria, craniotomy, and excessive alcohol intake. For these reasons, the prophylactic use of AEDs should be short-lasting and limited to the prevention of immediate and early seizures. Chronic treatment should be considered only after a diagnosis of PTE.
The present data demonstrate that lacosamide, in addition to exerting anticonvulsant activity, has the potential to retard kindling-induced epileptogenesis. Whether this indicates that lacosamide possesses antiepileptogenic or disease-modifying potential needs to be further evaluated, including studies in other models of acquired epilepsy.
Vouchers plus HEFs, if carefully designed and implemented, have a strong potential for reducing financial barriers and hence improving access to skilled birth attendants for poor women. To achieve their full potential, vouchers and HEFs require other interventions to ensure the supply of sufficient quality maternity services and to address other non-financial barriers to demand. If these conditions are met, voucher and HEF schemes can be further scaled up under close monitoring and evaluation.
In screening for IPV, women preferred self-completed approaches over face-to-face questioning; computer-based screening did not increase prevalence; and written screens had fewest missing data. These are important considerations for both clinical and research efforts in IPV screening.
Although use of a CoC has limited impact on disclosure, the quasi-anonymous method may increase disclosure to a similar extent as full anonymity. Quasi-anonymous approaches should be considered when under-reporting is likely, a context in which the disadvantages of this approach must be balanced against its advantages.
A system-change model of IPV ED training was effective in improving staff attitudes and knowledge about battered women and in protocols and staff training, as well as patient information and satisfaction. However, change in actual clinical practice was more difficult to achieve and may be influenced by institutional policy.
Domestic violence is common, and we found that most patients and clinicians are comfortable with domestic violence screening in urban family medicine settings. Patient self-administered domestic violence screening is as effective as clinician interview in terms of disclosure, comfort, and time spent screening.
The SEEK model was associated with reduced maternal Psychological Aggression and Minor Physical Assaults. Although such experiences may not be reported to protective services, ample evidence indicates their potential harm. SEEK offers a promising and practical enhancement of pediatric primary care.
A written informed consent process in screening for violence in the home is associated with a higher refusal rate than routine screening, but use of written informed consent does not result in a lower rate of detection for multiple forms of violence. The authors did not find any support for the hypothesis that the use of written informed consent would decrease detection of violence in the home.
It is difficult to predict early on who will acknowledge new risks over the course of pregnancy, and thus all women should be screened repeatedly to allow for the identification of risks and intervention during prenatal care.
The intervention improved documented asking about DV in practice up to 9 months later. This was mainly because of the routine use of health questionnaires containing DV questions at physical examination visits and the placement of DV posters in clinical areas. A small increase in case finding also resulted. System changes appear to be a cost-effective method to increase DV asking and identification.
Women experiencing IPV can identify specific factors and events constituting turning points or catalyst to change in their IPV situation. These turning points are dramatic shifts in beliefs and perceptions of themselves, their partners, and/or their situation that alter the women's willingness to tolerate the situation and motivate them to consider change. When counseling women experiencing IPV, health providers can incorporate understanding of turning points to motivate women to move forward in their process of changing their IPV situation.
One third of female patients with chronic neurologic disorders in Mexico suffer domestic violence. A higher frequency of domestic violence was endured by patients with diagnosis of functional disorders as essential epilepsy, headache, migraine, trigeminal pain, depression, or vertigo. The possibility of domestic violence should be routinely explored in patients with chronic neurologic disorders of functional origin.
The use of theory-based process evaluation helped identify both what inhibited and enhanced intervention effectiveness. Successful implementation of an enhanced FV screening model for MCH nurses occurred in the context of focussed women's health consultations, with the use of a maternal health and wellbeing checklist and greater collaboration with FV services. Improving links with these services and the ongoing appraisal of nurse work would overcome the barriers identified in this study.
High levels of symptoms of perinatal depression, anxiety, and PTSD are significantly associated with having experienced domestic violence. High-quality evidence is now needed on how maternity and mental health services should address domestic violence and improve health outcomes for women and their infants in the perinatal period.
In a large, diverse, community-based population of primary care patients, 1 of every 20 women had experienced domestic violence in the previous year; 1 of every 5 had experienced violence in their adult life; and 1 of every 3 had experienced violence as either a child or an adult. Current domestic violence is associated with single or separated status, socioeconomic status, substance abuse, specific psychological symptoms, specific physical symptoms, and the total number of physical symptoms.
No single IPV screening tool had well-established psychometric properties. Even the most common tools were evaluated in only a small number of studies. Sensitivities and specificities varied widely within and between screening tools. Further testing and validation are critically needed.
There is a low but important annual prevalence of IPV among female members of a MCO that occurs across all variables studied. This information is needed to develop appropriate screening protocols and interventions in this population.
There is a high prevalence and increased likelihood of being a victim of domestic violence in men and women across all diagnostic categories, compared to people without disorders. Longitudinal studies are needed to identify pathways to being a victim of domestic violence to optimise healthcare responses.
Although an attractive option for wound care, the NPD does not appear to offer a significant improvement over an SPD in healing of the RFFF donor site.
There is a significant rate of postoperative infection and dehiscence in patients with multiple comorbidities. There was no difference in the incidence of infection or dehiscence between the NPWT and dry dressing group. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov. The unique registration number is 
There have been no studies evaluating incisional NPWT as a prophylactic treatment to prevent infection and wound dehiscence of high-risk surgical incisions. Our data demonstrate that there is a decreased incidence of wound dehiscence and total infections after high-risk fractures when patients have NPWT applied to their surgical incisions after closure. There is also a strong trend for decreases in acute infections after NPWT. Based on our data in this multicenter prospective randomized clinical trial, NPWT should be considered for high-risk wounds after severe skeletal trauma.
With vacuum-assisted closure therapy, wound healing is at least as fast as with modern wound dressings. Especially cardiovascular and diabetic patients benefit from this therapy. The total costs of vacuum-assisted closure are comparable to those of modern wound dressings, but the advantage is its comfort for patients and nursing staff.
Negative pressure wound dressing treatment over clean, closed incisions for the first 6 to 7 postoperative days significantly reduces the incidence of wound infection after median sternotomy in a high-risk group of obese patients.
When selecting the type of treatment, the pain of the patient should be considered as a primary outcome. Increased levels of pain associated with the loss of autonomy during V.A.C. therapy increase nurses' workload and worsen patients' quality of life. However, these factors are not considered in the cost-benefit analyses.
Although debridement of the ulcer is considered a prerequisite for healing of diabetic foot ulcers, the grade of evidence is quite low. This may be due to a lack of studies rather than lack of effect. Negative pressure wound therapy seems to be safe and effective in the treatment of some diabetic foot ulcers, although there is still only one well-performed trial that evaluates the effect.
These findings demonstrate that perfusion beneath negative-pressure wound therapy decreases for increasing suction pressure. Thus, it is suggested that negative-pressure wound therapy should be used with caution on tissues with compromised vascularity, particularly when used circumferentially.
There is a rapidly emerging literature on the effect of NPWT on the closed incision. Initiated and confirmed first with a randomised controlled trial in orthopaedic trauma surgery, studies in abdominal, plastic and vascular surgery with high rates of complications have been reported recently. The evidence from single-use NPWT devices is accumulating. There are no large randomised studies yet in reconstructive joint replacement. Cite this article: Bone Joint Res 2013;2:276-84.
After open bariatric surgery, an abdominal panniculectomy is often required. This procedure has a high postoperative morbidity in these patients, although complications are usually mild. There is not an increase in the rate of complications when panniculectomy is associated with other procedures.
The HM-VAC should be considered in underdeveloped countries to provide modern management for complex wounds because healing is significantly faster compared with conventional wound care. Although the HM-VAC is more costly than the conventional approach, it is probably affordable for most resource-poor hospitals.
Bleeding is the major complication during negative pressure wound therapy for poststernotomy mediastinitis. Covering the heart with several layers of paraffin gauze is a necessary protective maneuver but cannot completely prevent major complications during negative pressure wound therapy. All operative procedures, including dressing changes, should be performed in the operating room under optimal hygienic and monitoring conditions to increase the salvage rate and to guarantee optimal surgical and anesthesiologic conditions in case of negative pressure wound therapy-related complications.
Obesity, defined by %BF, is associated with a 5-fold increased SSI risk. This risk increases as %BF increases. %BF is a more sensitive and precise measurement of SSI risk than BMI. Additional studies are required to better understand this relationship.
This trial shows that neither moderate benefits nor moderate harmful effects of tranexamic acid in patients with traumatic brain injury can be excluded. However, the analysis provides grounds for further clinical trials evaluating the effect of tranexamic acid in this population. Trial registration ISRCTN86750102.
In comparison with the previous report, we observed similar injury mechanisms, demographics and causes of death. However, in our experience, there was an improved access to the medical system, greater proportion of late deaths due to brain injury and lack of the classic trimodal distribution.
Prophylaxis with TMP-SMZ, which is well tolerated, significantly reduces the incidence of bacterial infection following renal transplantation, especially infection of the urinary tract and bloodstream, can provide protection against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and is cost-beneficial. Subnormal absorption of TMP-SMZ in the early posttransplant period mandates 320/1,600 mg daily for optimal benefit. Prophylaxis has little discernible effect on the microflora.
The data suggest, but do not prove, that a dose-response effect has been demonstrated, and that high-dose aerosolized pentamidine may further reduce the attack rate of PCP. These preliminary observations should be confirmed in a double-blind trial comparing 300 mg with 600 mg administered once monthly. The clinical relevance of the adverse pulmonary effects is unclear and requires further investigation.
A mild P. jirovecii pulmonary infection is prevalent in more than half of the general adult population. Our results strengthen the concept that immunocompetent adults develop frequent self-limited reinfections throughout life and participate in the circulation of P. jirovecii as an infective reservoir for susceptible individuals.
Inadequate TT fixation could be identified as the main contributor to UEE and should be targeted in prevention strategies. The reintubation rate after UEE was only 25%. Overall, UEE did not result in an adverse outcome in terms of mortality. Length of stay on NICU was significantly longer in UEE patients.
Continuous cricoid pressure prevents correct placement of the laryngeal tube and the laryngeal tube-suction II such that placement and ventilation via these devices are ineffective. The effect of cricoid pressure on ventilation via these devices, after correct placement, remains unknown.
The current study provides additional visual and mechanical evidence supporting a success rate of at least 95% by using a cricoid force of 30 N to occlude the esophageal entrance in anesthetized and paralyzed normal adult patients. The efficacy of the maneuver was independent of the position of the esophageal entrance relative to the glottis, whether midline or lateral.
In critically ill patients, emergency tracheal intubation is associated with a significant frequency of major complications. In this study, complications were not increased when intubations were accomplished without the supervision of an attending physician as long as the intubation was carried out or supervised by an individual skilled in airway management. Mortality associated with emergent tracheal intubation is highest in patients who are hemodynamically unstable and receiving vasopressor therapy before intubation.
As with many interventions intended to prevent ill health, the effectiveness of parachutes has not been subjected to rigorous evaluation by using randomised controlled trials. Advocates of evidence based medicine have criticised the adoption of interventions evaluated by using only observational data. We think that everyone might benefit if the most radical protagonists of evidence based medicine organised and participated in a double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, crossover trial of the parachute.
BMSCs act in a paracrine manner via the release of immunomodulatory factors to ameliorate the parenchymal and vascular injury of BPD in vivo. Our study suggests that BMSCs and factor(s) they secrete offer new therapeutic approaches for lung diseases currently lacking effective treatment.
BPD remains a severe complication of extreme prematurity in spite of prenatal steroids and surfactant treatment. Whether associations with surfactant and PDA treatment simply reflect severity of early lung disease or have causal relationships should probably be studied in randomized controlled trials.
From the patient's perspective, the measurement of 3 clinical signs-excoriations, erythema, and edema/papulation-provides as much information about current atopic eczema severity as more complex scoring systems that measure multiple clinical signs and disease extent. The simplicity of the Three Item Severity score, a previously published atopic eczema score based on measurement of these 3 clinical signs, makes it a suitable tool for research studies or clinical practice.
Methotrexate is a safe and effective drug for the treatment of psoriasis. Appropriate patient selection and monitoring will significantly decrease the risks of side effects. In patients without risk factors for hepatic fibrosis, liver biopsies may not be indicated or the frequency of liver biopsies may be markedly reduced.
The reliability of systematic reviews, in particular meta-analyses they contain, can be improved if more attention is paid to missing outcome data. The availability of COSs for specific health conditions might help with this and the concept has support from the majority of Co-ordinating Editors in CRGs.
In the absence of a clear evidence base, the European TREAT survey confirms the wide variation in prescribing practice of systemic immunosuppression in refractory paediatric atopic eczema. The results will be used to inform the design of a randomized controlled trial relevant to patient management across Europe.
We identified numerous issues related to study design, conduct, and quality that dispute the validity and question any inferences that can be drawn from these trials. In the context of these limitations, the initial RRT modality did not seem to affect mortality or recovery to RRT independence. There is urgent need for additional high-quality and suitably powered trials to adequately address this issue.
Statin initiation was associated with an approximate doubling of the risk for any myopathic event but did not appear to be associated with an increased risk for rhabdomyolysis in these patients. Because clinically significant elevations of creatine kinase levels were rare, statins appeared to be well tolerated in diabetic and nondiabetic patients who used them.
Based on current data, intermittent hemodialysis and CRRT appear to lead to similar clinical outcomes for patients with ARF. If CVVHF is used, a dose of 35 mL/kg per hour should be provided. Given the paucity of good-quality evidence in this important area, additional large randomized trials are needed to evaluate clinically important outcomes.
In the aftermath of catastrophic earthquakes, clinical findings of the renal victims can predict the final outcome. While fasciotomies indicate dialysis needs, extremity amputations, abdominal and thoracic traumas are associated with higher rates of mortality in addition to DIC and ARDS.
The results of this study do not substantiate the efficacy of ceftriaxone used in the prevention of meningitis in patients with traumatic pneumocephalus after mild head injury or in any specific subgroup of these patients. Cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea and intracranial hemorrhage may be considered primary risk factors for the development of meningitis in patients with posttraumatic pneumocephalus and, in the absence of these symptoms, intradural location of air and air volume greater than 10 ml may be considered secondary risk factors. Further studies in this area are warranted.
Delay in operative management of frontal sinus fractures in patients requiring operative intervention is associated with an increased risk for serious infections. Continued antibiotic prophylaxis beyond the perioperative period provides little benefit in preventing serious infections.
Pediatric posttraumatic CSF leaks involving the ethmoidal roof can be successfully managed via the endonasal endoscopic route using a multilayer repair technique, thus limiting complications associated with external approaches. Preoperative imaging including MDCT and high resolution MRI is of paramount importance for detecting the defect site and for planning surgery.
Individually, each of the studies included in this analysis demonstrated no significant difference in the incidence of meningitis with prophylactic antibiotic therapy. The reason for this is that inadequate numbers of patients were available at each institution. Pooling the data from the past 25 years revealed a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of meningitis with prophylactic antibiotic therapy.
CF patients had greater treatment adherence when prescribed digestive and respiratory medications, compared to physiotherapy or nutritional supplements. Therapeutic adherence was found to worsen with age and disease severity, however improved with treatments which were perceived by patients as more important or had a greater influence in their quality of life.
Electronic adherence monitoring was significantly more accurate than self-report or canister weight measures. Such accuracy is an essential prerequisite to increasing understanding of the treatment, setting, and patient factors that influence adherence, and to the consequent design of effective intervention strategies.
These results demonstrate a significant relation between medication adherence and IV antibiotics in CF patients, highlighting the importance of addressing adherence during clinic visits to improve health outcomes.
Inhaler reminders offer an effective strategy for improving adherence in primary care compared with a behavioral intervention or usual care, although this may not be reflected in differences in day-to-day asthma control.
Adherence was a dynamic event and rates decreased progressively for all methods over the 12-month follow-up. Canister weight and electronic monitoring measures were more accurate than self/parent reports and pharmacy records. Rates obtained by these two methods were very close and statistical analysis also showed a substantial agreement between them. As measurements by canister weight are less costly compared with currently available electronic devices, it should be considered as an alternative method to assess adherence in both clinical research and practice.
Interventions and policies to change behaviour can be usefully characterised by means of a BCW comprising: a 'behaviour system' at the hub, encircled by intervention functions and then by policy categories. Research is needed to establish how far the BCW can lead to more efficient design of effective interventions.
Cholinesterase inhibition with tacrine appears to reduce deterioration in cognitive performance during the first 3 months and increase the odds of global clinical improvement. Effects observed on measures of behavioral disturbance were of questionable clinical significance, and functional autonomy was not significantly affected. The clinical relevance of the benefits of cholinesterase inhibition remains controversial, and long-term trials with clinically relevant end points are required.
Several recommendations for improving adherence assessment were made. In particular, consideration should be given to the use of innovative technologies that provide a window into the "real time" behaviors of patients and families. Providing written treatment plans, identifying barriers to good adherence, and examining racial and ethnic differences in attitudes, beliefs and behaviors affecting adherence were strongly recommended.
HIV-infected children frequently lack protective levels of anti-HBs after previous HBV vaccination, and a significant proportion of them do not respond to booster vaccination or demonstrate memory despite receiving HAART, leaving this population insufficiently protected from infection with HBV.
Addition of CPG 7909 achieves rapid, higher, and sustained HBV seroprotection and increases HBV-specific T helper cell response to HBV vaccine in HIV subjects. These results confirm a potential adjuvant role for CPG 7909 in vaccine hyporesponsive populations including those living with HIV.
Simultaneous vaccinations in HIV positive patients were safe and well tolerated. The positive effect of PI on antibody response after influenza vaccination should be confirmed in larger studies.
We concluded that efficacy of the routine vaccination schedule was lower among HIV individuals in comparison with healthy volunteers. Influence of the progression of HIV infection on the response for vaccination was detected. Additional vaccine's doses have improved efficacy of immunisation which was comparable with general population.
GM-CSF failed to improve responses to the booster HBV vaccination. Overall, response was poor with only 42% of persons responding at one month post-vaccination confirming booster vaccination with the current HBV vaccine has poor immunogenicity among HIV-infected persons. Further research is needed to develop optimal vaccination strategies in HIV-infected persons.
The poor HBV vaccine response rate in the HIV uninfected high-risk adolescents was unexpected and suggests that HBV vaccination doses have not been optimized for older adolescents. This is the first report of decreased responsiveness in HIV infected subjects being associated with elevated CD8(+)/CD38(+)/HLA(-)DR(+) T cells and suggests that ongoing viral replication and concomitant immune system activation decreases the ability of the immune system in HIV infected subjects to respond to vaccination.
The high prevalence of hepatitis/HIV coinfections may impact on treatment with antiretroviral therapy, especially if there are unintended interruptions of therapy, and studies are needed to document the possible clinical impact on ART programmes. The poor performance of POC tests for HBV and HCV may be due to local operational problems or to unexpected technical issues not revealed by early validation tests. These tests are widely used in resource poor settings and should be revalidated in prospective field studies in areas of the tropics with high HIV prevalence rates.
Extremely low birth weight infants manifest three phases of fluid and electrolyte homeostasis, as do more mature infants, independent of thermal environment. Diuresis and natriuresis are the result of abrupt increases in GFR and FENa. We speculate that this may be the result of expansion of the neonatal extracellular space as fetal lung fluid is reabsorbed.
Thiazides should be considered as the first line of treatment in absorptive and excretory hypercalciuria. We believe that in unselected patients with calcium stone, thiazide therapy can be effective in its prevention. It is important to take into account the possible side effects of the drug and supplementation with potassium citrate for thiazide-induced hypocitraturia.
PSHC can significantly increase the successful expulsion rate and time of melamine-induced urinary calculi. The therapeutic efficacy is affected by PSHC dose, treatment duration, calculi position, and urinary pH. There is no relationship between the therapeutic efficacy and the stone size or patient age.
Regular medical prophylaxis may effectively prevent stone recurrence regardless of previous treatment modalities, stone composition, metabolic abnormalities and stone-free status. Cost effectiveness, patient compliance and gastrointestinal upset may limit patient acceptability and clinical use of medical prophylaxis. However, patients with a history of multiple stone recurrence, calcium oxalate dihydrate stones, hypercalciuria and hyperuricosuria benefit from regular medical prophylaxis.
Provision of alkali as potassium-magnesium citrate is an effective countermeasure for the increased risk of renal stone disease associated with immobilization. Despite an increase in urine calcium concentration, the relative saturation of calcium oxalate decreased due to citrate chelation of calcium and the concentration of undissociated uric acid decreased due to the significant increase in urine pH.
In this nationally representative sample the population adjusted rate of discharges for stone disease in females dramatically increased from 1997 to 2002. This alteration represents a change in the prevalence by gender of treated stone disease from a 1.7:1 to 1.3:1 male-to-female ratio. It may reflect variations in the underlying prevalence by gender of stone disease. We speculate that the increasing incidence of nephrolithiasis might be due to lifestyle associated risk factors, such as obesity.
Kidney stones affect approximately 1 in 11 people in the United States. These data represent a marked increase in stone disease compared with the NHANES III cohort, particularly in black, non-Hispanic and Hispanic individuals. Diet and lifestyle factors likely play an important role in the changing epidemiology of kidney stones.
WBV is a prevalent experience for weight loss treatment-seeking youth, even when they are no longer overweight. Given the frequent reports of WBV from adult perpetrators in addition to peers, treatment providers and school personnel can play an important role in identifying and supporting youth who may be at risk for pervasive teasing and bullying.
Epilepsy is a relevant socioeconomic burden at individual, family, health services, and societal level in Europe. The greater proportion of such burden is outside the formal health care sector, antiepileptic drugs representing a smaller proportion. Lack of economic data from several European countries and other methodological limitations make this report an initial estimate of the cost of epilepsy in Europe. Prospective incidence cost-of-illness studies from well-defined populations and common methodology are encouraged.
Twelve-month outcomes of stable ART patients who are down-referred to a primary health clinic are as good as, or better than, the outcomes of similar patients who are maintained at a hospital-based ART clinic. The cost of treatment with down-referral is lower across all outcomes and would save 11% for patients who remain in care and respond to treatment. These results suggest that this strategy would increase treatment capacity and conserve resources without compromising patient outcomes.
Clinic attendance and patient experience are better with nurse led primary care based antiretroviral treatment care than with hospital care; health related outcomes appear equally good. This evidence supports efforts of the WHO to scale-up universal access to antiretroviral treatment in sub Saharan Africa.
Community-based care by PLWAs resulted in similar clinical outcomes as usual care but with half the number of clinic visits. This pilot study suggests that task-shifting and mobile technologies can deliver safe and effective community-based care to PLWAs, expediting ART rollout and increasing access to treatment while expanding the capacity of health care institutions in resource-constrained environments.
Task shifting is an effective strategy for addressing shortages of HRH in HIV treatment and care. Task shifting offers high-quality, cost-effective care to more patients than a physician-centered model. The main challenges to implementation include adequate and sustainable training, support and pay for staff in new roles, the integration of new members into healthcare teams, and the compliance of regulatory bodies. Task shifting should be considered for careful implementation where HRH shortages threaten rollout programmes.
The early initiation of antiretroviral therapy reduced rates of sexual transmission of HIV-1 and clinical events, indicating both personal and public health benefits from such therapy. (Funded by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and others; HPTN 052 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
This study found that most children with all severities of hearing loss and no other concomitant diagnosed condition, who were early diagnosed; received amplification by 3 months; enrolled into AV intervention by 6 months and received a cochlear implant by 18 months if required, were able to "keep up with" rather than "catch up to" their typically hearing peers by 3 years of age on measures of speech and language, including children with profound hearing loss. By 5 years, all children achieved typical language development and 96% typical speech.
The lack of good-quality evidence in this area remains a serious problem. Services should improve quality and audit screen performance for identification of previously unknown permanent hearing impairment, pending evidence-based policy decisions based on the research recommendations. Further research is needed into a number of important areas including the evaluation of an agreed national protocol for services delivering SES to make future studies and audits of screen performance more directly comparable.
Prevalence of confirmed permanent childhood hearing impairment increases until the age of 9 years to a level higher than previously estimated. Relative to current yields of universal neonatal hearing screening in the United Kingdom, which are close to 1/1000 live births, 50-90% more children are diagnosed with permanent childhood hearing impairment by the age of 9 years. Paediatric audiology services must have the capacity to achieve early identification and confirmation of these additional cases.
When rigorous statistical control is exercised in comparing implanted and nonimplanted children, pediatric cochlear implantation is associated with reported improvements both in spoken communication skills and in some aspects of educational achievements and quality of life, provided that children receive implants before 5 years of age.
Significantly better language development was associated with early identification of hearing loss and early intervention. There was no significant difference between the earlier- and later-identified groups on several variables frequently associated with language ability in deaf and hard-of-hearing children. Thus, the variable on which the two groups differed (age of identification and intervention) must be considered a potential explanation for the language advantage documented in the earlier-identified group.
These data from a large multicenter collaborative study confirm and extend previous observations and show a consistent relationship between the timing of AMP and SSI risk with a trend toward lower risk occurring when AMP with cephalosporins and other antibiotics with short infusion times were given within 30 minutes prior to incision.
This is the first randomized controlled trial of pharmacotherapy for cannabis dependence in any age group to yield a positive primary cessation outcome in an intent-to-treat analysis. Findings support NAC as a pharmacotherapy to complement psychosocial treatment for cannabis dependence in adolescents.
Escitalopram treatment does not provide an additional benefit either for achieving abstinence, or for the treatment of the cannabis withdrawal syndrome. Due to limitations of our study, namely, a high dropout rate and effects of low abstinence rates on measures of anxiety, depression and withdrawal, it is premature to conclude that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors are not effective for treatment of the cannabis withdrawal syndrome.
This demonstration of dose-responsivity replicates and extends prior findings of the pharmacological specificity of the cannabis withdrawal syndrome. The efficacy of these doses for suppressing cannabis withdrawal suggests oral THC might be used as an intervention to aid cannabis cessation attempts.
Lithium treatment of BP with secondary SDD in adolescents was an efficacious treatment for both disorders. These results warrant replication with a long-term maintenance phase. The mean 6-year interval between the onset of BP and onset of SDD strongly argues for earliest recognition of BP.
These data extend prior research that indicates abrupt abstinence from cannabis can lead to clinically significant sleep disruption in daily users. The findings also indicate that sleep disruption associated with cannabis withdrawal can be attenuated by zolpidem, suggesting that hypnotic medications might be useful adjunct pharmacotherapies in the treatment of cannabis use disorders.
Dronabinol's ability to dose-dependently suppress cannabis withdrawal may be therapeutically beneficial to individuals trying to stop cannabis use. The absence of gross cognitive impairment or side effects in this study supports safety of doses up to 120mg/day. Continued evaluation of dronabinol in targeted clinical studies of cannabis treatment, using an expanded range of doses, is warranted.
The results of meta-analysis provide evidence for a relationship between cannabis use and earlier onset of psychotic illness, and they support the hypothesis that cannabis use plays a causal role in the development of psychosis in some patients. The results suggest the need for renewed warnings about the potentially harmful effects of cannabis.
The current study provides further evidence of the strong association between cannabis use and a broad range of primary mental illness. This emphasizes the importance of proper screening for frequent cannabis use and CUDs among individuals with primary mental illness and focusing prevention and treatment efforts on this population.
Cannabis users titrate their delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol intake by inhaling lower volumes of smoke when smoking strong joints, but this does not fully compensate for the higher cannabis doses per joint when using strong cannabis. Thus, users of more potent cannabis are generally exposed to more delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. Smoking behaviour appears to be a stronger predictor for cannabis dependence severity than monthly delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol dose.
Aqueous shunt implantation offers a significantly greater chance of successful glaucoma control in the first 2 years of life, compared with trabeculectomy with MMC. However, the enhanced success with aqueous shunt devices is associated with a higher likelihood of postoperative complications requiring surgical revision, most commonly tube repositioning.
Mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy combined with postoperative suture lysis and 5-fluorouracil is a viable option for older phakic children with refractory glaucoma. This procedure has a lower success rate in infants and in aphakic eyes. Both early and late postoperative complications are common, and diligent lifelong long-term follow-up is needed to detect bleb leaks and infection. The addition of postoperative suture lysis and 5-fluorouracil to mitomycin C-augmented trabeculectomy did not provide any convincing improvement in the success of this procedure in pediatric patients with refractory glaucoma and may have increased the complication rate.
This is the first reported case of Propionibacterium acnes endophthalmitis in an Ahmed glaucoma valve and the second one in a glaucoma drainage device. We strongly recommend using a patch graft to prevent and treat tube exposure. Conjunctival grafts may be useful to close the conjunctiva when there is marked scarring to prevent patch exposure and melting or extrusion.
Primary combined trabeculotomy and trabeculectomy was a useful initial procedure in uncomplicated congenital glaucoma. This was particularly true where corneal opacification, as in nearly all our eyes, precluded goniotomy, however, where other stigmata of anterior segment dysgenesis coexisted, results were significantly poorer.
The British annual incidence of PCG diagnosis is comparable to that reported for other similar populations. Ethnic minorities from South Asia are at significantly increased risk of PCG. Successful IOP control in PCG after surgery in Britain is comparable to that in the published literature.
Trabeculectomy with MMC may be useful in the management of childhood glaucomas in which goniotomy, trabeculotomy, or both have failed. However, the high incidence of BRI in this series over an extended follow-up interval dictates caution in using MMC as an adjunct in pediatric trabeculectomy.
More than half of the BL/SVI causes are potentially avoidable. Cataract and corneal disorders related to measles or vitamin A deficiency were the major treatable and preventable causes. Declining proportions of childhood factors and corneal disorders over a period of 10-20 years could reflect improved vitamin A supplementation and measles vaccination coverage in Indonesia. This finding, and the increased proportion of hereditary disease causes, could suggest improving levels of socioeconomic development and health care services.
Late bleb-related ocular infection may occur in children after trabeculectomy with mitomycin C and is characterized by abrupt onset, bleb infiltration, and rapid progression. Despite early preservation of vision after treatment of infection, significant late visual loss can occur.
In contrast to most reports, in the present study, trabeculectomy and CTT achieved higher long-term success rates than trabeculotomy. The patients with successful surgical results had better vision. Compliance with a routine of regular follow-up may increase the chances of a successful surgical outcome.
Approximately one half million sets of tubes (1,000,000 total tubes) are placed per year in North America. Based on results of this survey and those from the literature, 50,000 patients require treatment postoperatively because their tubes blocked (despite the use of prophylactic eardrops). This study identifies that a variety of treatments exist and confirms that further study is warranted to prevent postoperative tube blockage.
Glucocorticoids were most effective in controlling inflammation. Interestingly, the mineralocorticoids were also effective in reducing the inflammatory response at 5 days, suggesting that their fluid transport function helped clear disease. Thus, steroid control of middle ear disease may be useful in alleviating symptoms faster and reducing the risk to the inner ear.
Exposure to H2O2 may cause serious ischemic complications. The formation of peroxynitrite may cause vasoactive responses to H2O2 and platelet aggregation/thrombus formation, and the free diffusion of H2O2 through the vessel walls and its conversion to water and O2 leads to O2 bubbles within the closed vessel lumen. If used intradurally, H2O2 may have deleterious ischemic effects, and it can only be used carefully in open extradural spaces.
Oral prednisolone appears to be modestly effective adjuvant therapy for acute otitis media with discharge through tympanostomy tubes in children. Further studies seem warranted to determine whether short-term use of steroids early during the course of acute otitis media would also reduce the duration of middle ear effusion in children with intact tympanic membranes.
Based on these results, we propose that the common perception that rAOM is associated with recurrent episodes of microbiologically mediated AOM, whereas COME is generally a sterile inflammation, should be reconsidered.
TT composition does not significantly affect the rate or "ease" with which TTs may be opened after they become plugged with mucus ex vivo. The higher rate of plug clearance observed with ion-bombarded silicone relative to untreated silicone suggests that improvements may be possible with alterations in either TT composition or surface preparations.
Patients preferred routine referral, and there were no differences in patient costs or satisfaction. There was, however, strong medical support for direct referral. Restrictive direct referral criteria may limit the uptake. These findings are important for future planning of direct referral services. Important methodological lessons were also learnt about the conduct of trials involving the primary-secondary care interface.
When trying to improve the effectiveness of addiction treatment services, clinic-level coaching appears to help improve waiting-time and number of new patients while other components of improvement collaboratives (interest circles calls and learning sessions) do not seem to add further value.
The Guarantee with its explicit indications was an effective policy instrument to limit waiting times and improve access for patients with the greatest need. It is unlikely that the Guarantee caused any 'crowding out' of other patient groups. When the Guarantee was not in force, indications for surgery widened. This, however, resulted in longer waiting times for all patient groups. After the Guarantee was terminated, the already substantial differences in access and indications among ophthalmic units became even greater.
The triage process ensured rapid service for a small number of urgent referrals, but made little difference to the waiting time of the vast majority of patients. Given the resources required for triaging patients, the results of this study lead us to question the value of the triage system in this setting.
Use of continuous quality improvement can guide clinical leaders in their central role of reinstating clinical quality as the goal of management. The author suggests that continuous quality improvement with balanced clinical and administrative leadership is the means to forge the needed synthesis of quality and cost capable of improving mental health.
Implementing a nurse-led cataract assessment clinic improved access to care for public patients with cataracts. The safety and efficacy of the program and its excellent visual and patient-centred outcomes commend its adaptation and implementation to other ophthalmology departments.
The new pathway led to more effective use of clinic appointments, reduced diagnostic delay, and more rapid treatment decision times. Patient satisfaction with the speed of the diagnostic process increased. It is recommended that hospital trusts in England consider adopting similar 'straight to test' triaging to select patients for lung cancer clinics.
A community-based teledermoscopy service may allow improved management of outpatient referrals while providing a better, quicker and more convenient service. It may also provide cost savings, as teledermoscopy assessment can be cheaper than traditional assessment.
The majority of patients passing through this clinic are the 'worried-well' with benign scrotal pathology. They can now be seen within 2 weeks regardless of whether their GP suspects testicular tumour. This reduces anxiety in this large group of patients freeing capacity elsewhere in the diagnostic imaging department.
This is the first Asian report on this service. Open-access upper endoscopy reduced waiting time from the patient perspective, decreased subsequent consultations with family physicians and reduced referral to specialist clinics as well as increased patient and doctor satisfaction. Both referral systems for endoscopy were similar in terms of the diagnostic yield.
Waiting times for non-emergency coronary bypass surgery shortened after supplementary funding was granted to increase volume of cardiac surgical care in a health system with publicly-funded universal coverage for the procedure. The effect of the supplementary funding was not uniform for patients that access the services through wait lists and through direct admission.
Vitamin D deficiency improves with oral vitamin D supplementation and levels fall without supplementation. Chronic liver disease patients are at very high risk of vitamin D deficiency regardless of etiology or severity.
Low 25(OH)D levels are associated with increased liver damage and mortality in ALD. Our results suggest that vitamin D might be both a biomarker of severity and a potential therapeutic target in ALD.
Bracing significantly decreased the progression of high-risk curves to the threshold for surgery in patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. The benefit increased with longer hours of brace wear. (Funded by the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases and others; BRAIST ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Using the new SRS bracing criteria, the Providence orthosis was more effective for avoiding surgery and preventing curve progression when the primary initial curves at bracing was 35 degrees or less. However, the overall success of orthotic management for AIS in both groups was inferior to previous studies. Our results raise the question of the effectiveness of orthotic management in AIS and support the need for a multicenter, randomized study using these new criteria.
Thoracolumbosacral orthosis program maintained the measured roentgenographic parameters at the prebrace levels in progressive adolescent idiopathic scoliosis, but it had no effect on the droop of the seven lower ribs. The TLSO treatment stopped progression of scoliosis and reduced the number of patients requiring surgery. Thus, it changed the natural history of scoliosis.
Height velocities generated from clinical height measurements for patients with idiopathic scoliosis document the growth peak and predict cessation of growth reliably. Knowing the timing of the growth peak provides valuable information on the likelihood of progression to a magnitude requiring spinal arthrodesis.
The results of the present study suggest that overweight patients with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis will have greater curve progression and less successful results following orthotic treatment than those who are not overweight. The ability of an orthosis to transmit corrective forces to the spine through the ribs and soft tissue may be compromised in overweight patients. This factor should be taken into consideration when making treatment decisions. Additional study is warranted to determine a threshold effect.
If conservative management does reduce the proportion of children with adolescent idiopathic scoliosis that require surgery, it can be said to provide a real and meaningful advantage to both the patients and the community. It is contended that conservative methods of treatment should never be ruled out from scoliosis management, because they can and do offer a viable alternative to those patients who cannot or will not opt for surgical treatment.
The current study demonstrated the different patterns of weight side-shift between normal subjects and patients with idiopathic scoliosis. The patients transferred less weight laterally than the normal subjects during slow and fast random movements. The patients also showed slower side-shift patterns than the normal subjects during the fast random movement.
The Rosenberger brace demonstrated an overall failure rate similar to untreated rates from published natural history studies, although subgroups of patients had lower failure rates. These findings suggest the need for further refinement of the indications for the Rosenberger brace.
The SpineCor does not change natural history of idiopathic scoliosis during the pubertal growth spurt. The use of the Chêneau brace seems to do so. Oncoming studies with the aim to test the efficiency of braces should be based on samples at immediate risk for progression (only girls with first signs of maturation but pre-menarchial).
Curve progression rate was found to be significantly higher in the SpineCor group when compared with the rigid brace group. Changing to rigid bracing could control further curve progression for majority of patients who previously failed with SpineCor bracing. For both SpineCor and rigid brace treatments, 30-40% of patients who were originally successfully treated by bracing would exhibit further curve progression beyond skeletal maturity. The post-maturity progression rate was found to be 1.5° per year in the current study, which was relatively greater than those reported before.
Risser 0 patients presenting with mild idiopathic scoliosis are at high risk for progression to >25 degrees primary curve magnitude. Treatment with the Charleston nighttime bending brace may reduce progression to full-time bracing threshold. No difference in progression to surgical intervention was shown between nighttime bracing and observation for small curves.
Minimal pain and no dysfunction occurred (mean) 23 years after fusion for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis compared with normal straight controls. Significantly more pain in the scar region occurred when bone graft from an incision over the posterior iliac crest was used for harvesting bone to the fusion compared with an incision performed as an elongation of the midline incision used for the scoliosis surgery.
Microdebrider-assisted PITA is a safe and effective alternative for children otherwise treated with traditional tonsillectomy for symptoms of OSA due to adenotonsillar hypertrophy. This series suggests a 3.9% overall rate of complications, with the most common noted as tonsillar regrowth without recurrence of OSA. Prospective trials with longer follow-up may define higher complication rates.
Methotrexate is reasonably effective in clinical practice as a steroid sparing agent in inflammatory bowel disease. The efficacy in fistulating Crohn's disease justifies its use as an immunomodulator in these patients. Combined azathioprine and methotrexate treatment appears to offer no advantage over methotrexate alone.
The long-term remission rate with MTX in our pediatric IBD population was low. However, MTX was generally well tolerated and induced and maintained remission in some patients who previously had failed a purine analog and/or anti-TNF. Prospective controlled trials are indicated to determine the place of MTX in the management of pediatric IBD.
our data suggest an inverse correlation between the quantity of mucoid exopolysaccharide production by BCC bacteria and rate of decline in CF lung function. Certain antibiotics may induce a change in bacterial morphology that enhances their virulence. A simple in vitro test of bacterial mucoidy may be useful in predicting the rate of decline of respiratory function in CF.
The efficacy and safety of budesonide DPI-A and DPI-B versus placebo were demonstrated across the low to medium inhaled corticosteroid dose range in children >or= 6 years with very mild asthma and adolescents and adults with mild-to-moderate asthma. The study is limited by the evaluation of only two doses for each product in both studies. Additionally, the studies were not designed to test equivalence or noninferiority between the active products. Pharmacokinetic characterization was limited because of the small sample sizes.
The results of this study in patients with primarily mild to moderate asthma suggest that ciclesonide 80 and 320 microg QD were similar to budesonide 200 microg BID in improving pulmonary function, controlling asthma symptoms, and reducing the need for rescue medication use. Unlike budesonide, ciclesonide was not associated with significant urinary cortisol suppression in these patients.
In this long-term study in children with asthma, extrafine HFA-BDP provided long-term maintenance of asthma control at approximately half the dose compared with CFC-BDP+S. There were no clinically meaningful differences between HFA-BDP extrafine aerosol and conventional CFC-BDP+S with regard to growth or other systemic effects.
nCPAP rapidly decreased inspiratory work in young infants with acute bronchiolitis. Improvement in the respiratory distress score at 6 hr was proportional to the initial clinical severity, suggesting the importance of rapid nCPAP initiation in the more severe forms of the disease.
The evidence supporting the use of CPAP to reduce PCO(2) and respiratory distress in bronchiolitis is of low methodological quality, and there is no conclusive evidence that CPAP reduces the need for intubation. No definitive conclusions could be drawn about the CPAP-He effect. Further research using higher quality methodology is needed to clarify the beneficial role of these interventions.
Hudson prong bubble continuous positive airway pressure therapy reduces the need for up-transfer of infants with respiratory distress in nontertiary centers. There is a clinically relevant but not statistically significant increase in the risk of pneumothorax. There are significant benefits associated with continuous positive airway pressure use in larger nontertiary centers.
Preterm neonates were initially managed with either nCPAP or PS with rapid extubation to nCPAP had similar clinical outcomes to those treated with PS followed by a period of mechanical ventilation. An approach that uses early nCPAP leads to a reduction in the number of infants who are intubated and given surfactant.
In infants born at 25-to-28-weeks' gestation, early nasal CPAP did not significantly reduce the rate of death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia, as compared with intubation. Even though the CPAP group had more incidences of pneumothorax, fewer infants received oxygen at 28 days, and they had fewer days of ventilation. (Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, 12606000258550.).
In premature infants treated with nasal continuous positive airway pressure early after birth, the addition of very early surfactant therapy without mandatory ventilation decreased the need for subsequent mechanical ventilation, decreased the incidence of air-leak syndrome, and seemed to be safe. Reduction in the need for mechanical ventilation is an important outcome when medical resources are limited and may result in less chronic lung disease in both developed and developing countries.
Findings from this 1-year follow-up of both lucinactant trials indicate that this new peptide-based synthetic surfactant is at least as good, if not superior, to animal-derived surfactants for prevention of respiratory distress syndrome and may be a viable alternative to animal-derived products.
Lucinactant is a more effective surfactant preparation than colfosceril palmitate for the prevention of RDS. In addition, lucinactant reduces the incidence of BPD, compared with colfosceril palmitate, and decreases RDS-related mortality rates, compared with beractant. Therefore, we conclude that lucinactant, the first of a new class of surfactants containing a functional protein analog of SP-B, is an effective therapeutic option for preterm infants at risk for RDS.
Lucinactant and poractant alfa were similar in terms of efficacy and safety when used for the prevention and treatment of RDS among preterm infants. The ability to enhance the performance of a synthetic surfactant with the addition of a peptide that mimics the action of SP-B, such as sinapultide, brings potential advantages to exogenous surfactant therapy.
Surfactant therapy may set in motion hemodynamic changes that could predispose to intracranial hemorrhage in certain circumstances, but this can probably be compensated by careful management of oxygenation and ventilation. A relationship between surfactant therapy and intracranial hemorrhage is probably not isolated to any particular surfactant preparation or method of delivery; studies comparing surfactants have shown no differences in rates of intracranial hemorrhage.
These data suggest that multiple micronutrient supplements are well tolerated during pregnancy, but the effect on birthweight is modest. The observed effect on early neonatal mortality suggests the need for further studies and careful assessment of the intervention in health system settings.
Compared with iron-folic acid supplementation alone, maternal supplementation with multiple micronutrients during pregnancy in low-income countries resulted in a small increase in birthweight and a reduction in the prevalence of LBW of about 10%. The effect was greater among women with higher BMI.
The combination of an early invitation to prenatal food supplementation and multiple micronutrient supplementation lowered mortality in children before the age of five years and reduced the gap in child survival chances between social groups. The pattern of adherence to the supplementations was complex; women with less education adhered more to food supplementation while those with more education had higher adherence to micronutrients.
The 28-item CQLQ has dimensionality that is consistent with a cough-specific quality-of-life instrument. It is a valid and reliable method by which to assess the impact of cough on the quality of life of chronic and acute coughers, and the efficacy of cough therapies in chronic coughers.
Unilateral motor seizures may be a specific clinical characteristic of SMEI caused by SCN1A mutations. Ten percent of SCN1A mutations are inherited from an asymptomatic or mildly affected parent, suggesting that SMEI is genetically heterogeneous. The increased frequency of familial epilepsy indicates that other genetic factors may contribute to this disorder.
62.8% of our series of 43 medication-resistant epileptic patients experienced a significant long-term seizure reduction after VNS, even in a situation of on unchanged medical therapy. Patient characteristics predictive of VNS responsiveness remain subject to investigation. Controlled studies with larger sample sizes, on VNS for patients with medication-resistant epilepsy on unchanged medication, are necessary to confirm VNS efficacy for drug-resistant epilepsy, and to identify predictive factors.
HR variability was reduced, and the nocturnal increase in HR variability was not present in patients with refractory epilepsy. One-year treatment with VNS did not have a marked effect on HR variability, suggesting that impaired cardiovascular autonomic regulation is associated with the epileptic process itself rather than with recurrent seizures.
The results strongly argue for regular soap use against common dermatomycoses as a low-cost and effective treatment. This promising finding should be considered in settings where dermatophyte infections represent a public health problem and where access to appropriate treatment and financial resources are limited.
The newer fungistatic drug sertaconazole nitrate 2% cream was as effective as terbinafine hydrochloride 1% cream which is one of the fungicidal drugs, though terbinafine hydrochloride 1% cream has higher rates of complete cure at the end of 2 weeks as compared to sertaconazole nitrate 2% cream. Both the drugs showed good tolerability with no adverse effects.
The great majority of patients in the tropics with a dermatophyte infection of the skin can be cured with a topical antimycotic preparation and do not need expensive oral therapy. This also proved to be valid for HIV-1-seropositive patients. Whitfield's cream and clotrimazole cream are both very effective. The lower cost makes Whitfield's cream the treatment of choice in dermatophyte infections of the skin in tropical primary health care.
The two concentrations of INF were equivalent in reducing pain, with a trend to increased oral additional agents in the more dilute solution. The widespread use of this readily available analgesic in the standard concentration can be supported, particularly in patients <50 kg.
Although we were unable to show a statistically significant difference between our study and control groups, we believe that this may be due to technique (positioning, delivery device) and timing of administration of IN fentanyl as well as multi-factorial causes of distress during VCUG. Future studies investigating alternative delivery techniques of IN fentanyl for analgesia during VCUG may yield more promising results.
Significant disparity exists between EMT-Ps' perceptions of acute pain assessment and the frequency of providing analgesia and their actual practice. Children and adolescents had less documentation of pain assessment and received less analgesic interventions compared with adults. Inability to assess pain may be an important barrier to the provision of analgesia.
These results identify a void in the documentation of pain assessment and implementation of pain-control interventions for injured pediatric patients. Education for prehospital providers is recommended, emphasizing the importance of pain assessment and documentation of pain-control care for pediatric trauma patients.
Several minor painful procedures are commonly performed in the emergency department without pharmacological pain management. There remains a gap between what we know to be effective, easily implemented pain management strategies, and what is actually practiced. We must work to close this gap.
Disparity exists between perceived and documented emergency department pain management practices for children. Quality improvement initiatives should focus on improving pain assessment in infants, treating moderate to severe pain in children of all age groups, and education of health care providers in pain management strategies. Resources should target health care processes effective in decreasing pediatric pain.
Completion rates for TAT were high; adolescents evaluated their experience with TAT positively and were able to exhibit key behavioral headache management skills following treatment. While clinically significant improvements in migraine and migraine-related disability/quality of life were observed with both TAT and treatment as usual (triptan therapy), the small study size and the absence of a control group do not permit conclusions about the effectiveness of either treatment. Nonetheless these results indicate TAT may be a promising treatment format for improving access to behavioral treatments for underserved adolescents and justifies further evaluation of TAT both alone and in combination with drug therapy.
I-CBT is a viable treatment option for adults with depression and some anxiety disorders who request this treatment modality. Important questions remain before broad implementation can be supported. Future research would benefit from prioritizing adapting treatments to children/adolescents and using noninferiority designs with established forms of treatment.
Evidence for psychological therapies treating chronic pain is promising. Recommendations for clinical practice and research are presented.
In light of promising results of most studies, additional research on limited contact interventions targeting health behaviors including weight loss, physical activity, and/or diet is merited that utilizes rigorous methods including control groups; follow-up data collection; and testing of prompt frequencies, specific intervention components, or prompt characteristics. Future research would be especially valuable if it improves understanding of the most effective types of periodic prompts for fostering long-term behavior change in order to maximize use of this tool in limited contact health promotion programs. Specifically, various types of communication technology should be used and evaluated to expand and refine their use.
To our knowledge, this is the first time a pediatric Internet intervention has been examined as part of a "real world" setting. This is an important step toward establishing Internet interventions as an adjunctive component to treatment of pediatric patients in a clinical setting, particularly given the positive user feedback, possible cost savings, and significant potential for large-scale dissemination.
Based on findings largely from tertiary students, web interventions targeting alcohol-related problems have an effect about equivalent to brief in-person interventions, but with the advantage that they can be delivered to a far larger proportion of the target population. Web-based interventions to prevent the development of alcohol-related problems in those who do not currently drink appear to have minimal impact. There are currently insufficient data to assess the effectiveness of web-based interventions for tobacco use by adolescents.
Data from the HES highlights a major public health issue. Caries is a preventable disease yet the number of children being admitted for elective extractions of teeth due to caries was increasing yearly. Further investigation to determine some of the underlying reasons for this trend is required.
Differences between male and female patients were observed in the relationships between frontal lobe volume and two of the four clinical dimensions examined. These findings suggest that aspects of the neuropathological basis for some symptoms of schizophrenia may be sexually dimorphic.
Neuropsychological functioning provides empirical validation to operationalized definitions of schizophrenia which are mainly based upon deterioration. It is suggested that some inconsistency of neurobiological studies in schizophrenia might result for using solely current consensus-based diagnostic systems. The implementation of poly-diagnostic strategies could contribute to improve the validity of the schizophrenia construct.
The results suggest two patterns of neuroanatomic whole-brain abnormalities that differ in severity according to the relative prominence of negative, Schneiderian, and paranoid symptoms. These patterns may reflect differential involvement of dysgenic and atrophic pathophysiological processes. Sex moderates abnormalities in the neuroanatomic features of schizophrenia.
This study demonstrates that diagnostic agreement is higher among chronic patients than that observed in subjects with a recent onset of psychosis, although considerable discordance is also observed in this chronic sample. However, the discordance among chronic patients with functional psychosis largely derives from the different emphasis that diagnostic systems place on co-occurrence of psychotic and affective symptoms. This may have serious epistemological consequences, thus underlining the conventional nature of the present schizophrenia diagnoses and the need for biologically founded diagnostic criteria.
Modern diagnostic systems (DSM-III-R and ICD-10) have high predictive validity, and are superior to ICD-9. The six-month duration criterion of DSM-III-R schizophrenia accounts for its predictive validity and stability over 13 years, but restricts its use in first-episode studies. The one-month duration criterion of ICD-10 is less restrictive, without major compromises in predictive validity or stability.
Schizophrenic illness remains heterogeneous with regard to illness course and outcome even when narrowly diagnosed with the help of modern operationalized diagnostic criteria. Contemporary differentiation between schizophrenic and schizoaffective disorders is prognostically valid.
A significant reduction in average length of hospital stay was achieved for infants of 1501 through 2000 g birth weight. Earlier discharge of infants weighing < or = 1500 g at birth was hampered by persistent apneic episodes and feeding difficulties. A community-based program designed to provide individualized support and education for families of low birth weight infants was cost-effective and had a positive influence on the home environment.
Early discharge from the hospital at weights as low as 1300 to 1350 gm is safe for the VLBW infant when properly selected on the basis of behavioral criteria and environmental approval. The potential savings in hospital costs should be considered when resources are allocated for continued support for these infants.
The cost of urolithiasis is estimated at almost $2 billion annually and it appears to be increasing with time despite a shift in inpatient to outpatient treatment and the emergence of minimally invasive treatment modalities, perhaps because the prevalence of stone disease is increasing.
Younger patients are more likely to present with renal calculi and less likely to pass these stones, probably due to the relatively larger stone burden and location. The passage rate for ureteral calculi is surprisingly consistent in all age groups with stones greater than 5 mm. rarely passing spontaneously. Half of the children 10 years or younger who present with urinary calculi have an identifiable metabolic disorder. Thus, all children with stones should undergo metabolic evaluation. In addition, these children are nearly 5-fold more likely to have recurrent stones than those with no identifiable metabolic disorder. Thus, they should be followed aggressively.
Citrate supplementation with lemonade increased urinary citrate levels more than 2-fold without changing total urinary volume. Lemon juice, which contains nearly 5 times the concentration of citric acid compared to orange juice, is an inexpensive and well tolerated dietary source of citrate. Lemonade therapy may improve patient compliance, and may be useful as adjunctive treatment for patients with hypocitraturic calcium nephrolithiasis.
The incidence of urolithiasis in the pediatric population increased nearly 5-fold at our institution during the last decade. We recommend that the primary diagnostic test be a 24-hour urine collection. The most common metabolic abnormality was hypocitraturia, followed by hypercalciuria. Recurrence of stones is common (approximately 40% rate) and followup is advised.
Reaching young women by phone after a clinic visit for contraception is challenging and does not appear to provide significant benefits beyond those provided by basic clinic services. More intensive interventions may be needed to markedly change adolescent sexual and contraceptive behavior.
Condom use increased after the intervention whereas the use of ECP remained stable. Knowledge of ECP improved and the attitudes towards both condoms and ECP became more positive. Participation of nurse-midwives and medical students, skill rehearsal, and improved access to condoms may be useful elements in sexual education.
High rates of sexual intercourse underscore the urgent need for effective AIDS-risk reduction interventions that target low-income urban, African-American preteens and early teens. A developmentally and culturally tailored intervention based on social-cognitive theory and delivered to naturally formed peer groups recruited from community settings can increase self-reported condom use. The strong short-term improvements in behaviors and intentions followed by some relapse over longer periods argue for a strengthened program and research focus on sustainability.
This specially designed sex education programme did not reduce conceptions or terminations by age 20 compared with conventional provision. The lack of effect was not due to quality of delivery. Enhancing teacher led school sex education beyond conventional provision in eastern Scotland is unlikely to reduce terminations in teenagers.
The evidence from these papers is limited, in terms of both quality and quantity, along with consistency of findings, but some recommendations in relation to effective interventions can be made.
A substantial minority of 15-year-olds have engaged in sexual intercourse. Condom use is the most frequent method of contraception reported by the sexually active respondents, followed by the dual use of condoms and contraceptive pills and contraceptive pills only. The proportions of poorly protected and unprotected youth remain high, and attention to international policy and practice determinants of young sexual behavior and contraceptive use is required.
Dual protection provided by the combination of the condom with the pill or other methods has become an important factor in the prevention of sexually transmitted infections and unwanted pregnancies, but continuing education on dual protection and better access to treatment is still necessary for both men and women, particularly among at-risk groups.
In this representative sample of UK children, one in five were still judged as having an orthodontic treatment need at age 15 years, as determined by the modified index of orthodontic treatment need. However, considerable variation was observed between professional and lay perceptions of need.
Evidence based on the currently available studies of low-to-moderate quality showed that surgically facilitated orthodontics seems to be safe for the oral tissues and is characterized by a temporary phase of accelerated tooth movement. This can effectively shorten the duration of orthodontic treatment. However, to date, no prospective studies have compared overall treatment time and treatment outcome with those of a control group. Well-conducted, prospective research is still needed to draw valid conclusions.
The accelerated osteogenic orthodontic technique is a safe and effective treatment option for mandibular anterior decompensation treatment of these patients. When combined with a temporary skeletal anchorage device and bone augmentation, this technique facilitated the decompression of the mandibular anterior teeth in severely compromised dentitions.
The authors conclude that nondepolarizing NMBAs concentration-dependently inhibit human neuronal nAChRs. The inhibition of the presynaptic alpha3beta2 nAChR subtype expressed at the motor nerve ending provides a possible molecular explanation for the tetanic and train-of-four fade seen during a nondepolarizing neuromuscular block.
This study demonstrates that nondepolarizing NMBAs inhibit human adult muscle nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes by mixed mechanisms. When using the nondesensitizing agonist dimethylphenylpiperazinium, inhibition by the NMBA is competitive, whereas activation with high concentrations of acetylcholine in combination with NMBA induces a noncompetitive inhibition, which the authors speculate can involve receptor desensitization similar to that observed in the neuromuscular junction.
Prolonged neuromuscular blockade after the termination of long-term treatment with vecuronium is associated with metabolic acidosis, elevated plasma magnesium concentrations, female sex, and probably more important, the presence of renal failure and high plasma concentrations of 3-desacetylvecuronium.
Assessment of ORB within a systematic review of a single primary outcome underestimates the risk of ORB in comparison to the assessment of multiple primary and secondary outcomes. ORB in trials is highly prevalent within systematic reviews of cystic fibrosis when assessed across all outcomes. This could be reduced by the development of a core outcome set for trials and systematic reviews in cystic fibrosis.
Research protocols, even if published, are likely to remain, at least to some extent, iterative documents. We found that a large number of changes were made to Cochrane reviews, some of which could be prone to influence by prior knowledge of results. Even if many of the changes between protocol and review improve the overall study, the reasons for making these should be clearly identified and documented within the final review.
The majority of the reviews concluded that spinal manipulation is an effective treatment for low back pain. Although, in particular, the reviews with a relatively high methodological quality had a positive conclusion, strong conclusions were precluded by the overall low quality of the reviews. More empirical research on the review methods applied to other therapies in other professional fields is needed to further explore our findings about the factors related to a positive reviewers' conclusion.
We described the methodological characteristics and rigour of child-relevant reviews in the CDSR. Many SRs are not up-to-date according to Cochrane criteria. Our study describes variation in conduct and reporting across SRs and reveals clinicians' ability to access child-specific data.
There are inconsistencies in data presented as conference abstracts/presentations and those reported in subsequent published reports. These inconsistencies could impact the final assessment results. Data discrepancies identified across sources included in TARs should be highlighted and their impact assessed and discussed. Sensitivity analyses should be carried out with and without abstract/presentation data included in the analysis. Incomplete reporting in conference abstracts and presentations limits the ability of reviewers to assess confidently the methodological quality of trials.
This sample of SRs in the rehabilitation field showed heterogeneous characteristics and a moderate quality of reporting. Poor control of potential source of bias might be improved if more widely agreed-upon evidence-based reporting guidelines will be actively endorsed and adhered to by authors and journals.
We found some high-quality systematic reviews. There was evidence on the potential of invasive treatments to provide symptomatic relief. Surgery seems to provide a longer-lasting effect than percutaneous interventions with bare metal stents or without stents. Evidence in favor of drug-eluting stents so far is based on short-term follow-up and mostly on patients with single-vessel disease.
There seems to be at present no solid evidence for survival benefit on early invasive strategy for UA/NSTEMI as a broad diagnostic group, and the risk of doing harm should be considered. Also, the evidence for PCI to decrease early mortality after STEMI is scanty. Estimations of predicted harm may further aid decisions on whether to implement the new treatment over the old one. It may also give an additional dimension for interpreting the results of any meta-analysis.
SRs are now produced in large numbers, and our data suggest that the quality of their reporting is inconsistent. This situation might be improved if more widely agreed upon evidence-based reporting guidelines were endorsed and adhered to by authors and journals. These results substantiate the view that readers should not accept SRs uncritically.
The results of the Delphi exercise have established a dataset of 22 required items for the prospective registration of systematic reviews, and 18 optional items. The dataset captures the key attributes of review design as well as the administrative details necessary for registration.
The first year of PROSPERO has shown that registration of systematic review protocols is feasible and not overly burdensome for those registering their reviews. The evaluation has demonstrated that, on the whole, survey respondents are satisfied and the system allows registration of protocol details in a straightforward and acceptable way. The findings have prompted some changes to improve user experience and identified some issues for future consideration.
Recent work provides direct empirical evidence for the existence of study publication bias and outcome reporting bias. There is strong evidence of an association between significant results and publication; studies that report positive or significant results are more likely to be published and outcomes that are statistically significant have higher odds of being fully reported. Publications have been found to be inconsistent with their protocols. Researchers need to be aware of the problems of both types of bias and efforts should be concentrated on improving the reporting of trials.
This update does not change the conclusions of the review in which 16 studies were included. Direct empirical evidence for the existence of study publication bias and outcome reporting bias is shown. There is strong evidence of an association between significant results and publication; studies that report positive or significant results are more likely to be published and outcomes that are statistically significant have higher odds of being fully reported. Publications have been found to be inconsistent with their protocols. Researchers need to be aware of the problems of both types of bias and efforts should be concentrated on improving the reporting of trials.
Discrepancies in analyses between publications and other study documentation were common, but reasons for these discrepancies were not discussed in the trial reports. To ensure transparency, protocols and statistical analysis plans need to be published, and investigators should adhere to these or explain discrepancies.
There is little evidence from SRs to support commonly practiced methods for conducting SRs. No SRs summarized studies with prospective designs and most had moderate or minimal risk of bias. Future research should examine bias that can occur during the selection of studies for inclusion and the synthesis of studies, as well as systematically review the existing empirical evidence.
Descriptions of analyses conducted did not agree between internal company documents and what was publicly reported. Internal company documents provide extensive documentation of methods planned and used, and trial findings, and should be publicly accessible. Reporting standards for randomized controlled trials should recommend transparent descriptions and definitions of analyses performed and which study participants are excluded.
In this small retrospective study of women with peripartum cardiomyopathy, patients treated with immune globulin had a greater improvement in ejection fraction during early follow-up than patients treated conventionally. Given the poor prognosis of women with peripartum cardiomyopathy who do not improve, this therapy merits further study.
The implanted device nearly eliminates sudden arrhythmic death in patients with documented, potentially fatal ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Automatic tiered therapy is highly effective to restore sinus rhythm, provided that an integrated two-zone tachycardia detection algorithm is used, assigning lower tachycardia rates to overdrive pacing and/or cardioversion and higher tachycardia rates to defibrillation. In general, spontaneous VTs can be terminated by automatic overdrive pacing, and painful or disturbing countershock therapies are not required to terminate the majority of spontaneous VT episodes.
We demonstrated an IVIG-induced change in the balance between inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines that favored an anti-inflammatory net effect in CHF. This effect was significantly correlated with an improvement in LVEF, suggesting a potential for immunomodulating therapy in addition to optimal conventional cardiovascular treatment regimens in CHF patients.
Immunoglobulin therapy completely suppressed acute CB3 myocarditis by transferring the neutralizing antibody into the host in the acute viremic stage and induced an anti-inflammatory effect in the subsequent aviremic stage; the reduction of the splenic B-cell population may be closely associated with an anti-inflammatory effect.
Mortality and major neonatal morbidity in survivors decreased for infants with birth weight 501 to 1500 g between 2000 and 2009. However, at the end of the decade, a high proportion of these infants still either died or survived after experiencing ≥ 1 major neonatal morbidity known to be associated with both short- and long-term adverse consequences.
Significant morbidity and mortality from inherited AT-III deficiency can occur in the neonatal period, and the incidence of affected neonatal patients is probably underestimated. Careful family history, early recognition, diagnosis, and specific treatment are important for management of this disorder.
The off-label use of antithrombin concentrate is increasing rapidly, particularly in critically ill children receiving extracorporeal membrane oxygenation, with few parallel studies to substantiate its safety or efficacy. Further preclinical and controlled clinical studies are critical to expanding our knowledge of this drug. In the meantime, antithrombin concentrate should be used judiciously by clinicians and following guidelines instated by hospitals.
Infants attending DCCs will suffer ARI more frequently than children cared for at home. We did not find seasonal variations in the incidence rates among DCC infants. The quality of care provided at these facilities should be analyzed in more depth for proposing measures to decrease ARI incidence.
Viral diarrhea appears to be transmitted predominantly from person to person, whereas bacterial diarrhea appears to be primarily foodborne. A substantial portion of the diarrheal episodes may be of noninfectious etiology. Limiting child-to-child transmission of disease in daycare centers may substantially reduce the disease burden.
Societal costs of RA in the US are $19.3 billion and $39.2 billion (in 2005 dollars) without and with intangible costs, respectively. This study was one of the first to attempt to quantify the comprehensive burdens of RA. Despite several assumptions made in areas in which few data exist, the findings generate useful insights into the full burden of RA.
RA-related work-disability rates were similar in the USA and European countries. An apparent decrease in the prevalence of RA-related work disability since the 1970s may be related to a decrease in physically demanding work rather than to epidemiologic changes in RA. The majority of the literature addresses permanent disability and temporary work loss; none of the studies reviewed reported the effect of RA on presenteeism, i.e. work limitation from the employer perspective, and there are few published studies of the effectiveness of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs in reducing work-related productivity loss.
Although MTX treatment can be initiated by using the oral administration route, parenteral administration of MTX is indicated in those patients with poor compliance toward the oral form. The subcutaneous route seems to be more effective than the oral route for MTX administration based on the results of several studies, and this route may be preferred because of better usability and absence of pain at the infusion site.
Our data suggest the oral solution may be substituted for tablet dosing and sc injection substituted for im. Thus, a variety of different dosing methodologies may be considered providing the most appropriate route in each patient, given issues of compliance, medication cost, and preference.
In patients with stable Crohn's disease, the oral bioavailability of methotrexate is highly variable and averages 73% of that of subcutaneous administration. Concomitant folic acid has no significant effect on the bioavailability. Dose adjustments based on individual pharmacokinetic assessment should be considered when switching patients from parenteral to oral therapy.
Daily RA practice needs to be broadened by regular assessment of disease burden from the patients' perspectives. Patient-reported measures, such as disability or HRQoL, should be incorporated for monitoring health outcomes of individual patients and for initiating and evaluating therapy.
Unlike oral MTX, the systemic exposure of SC MTX did not plateau over the doses studied, particularly at doses ≥15 mg/week. In this study, higher systemic MTX exposure was not associated with increases in AEs. Patients with an inadequate clinical response to oral MTX may benefit from higher drug exposure by switching to SC MTX.
The mean MTX AUC (PO/SC) in these patients falls outside the 90% confidence interval for the bioequivalence limit. SC MTX is more bioavailable than PO MTX; however, the mean relative MTX bioavailability (PO/SC) nearly met the FDA bioequivalence standard and PO MTX could be proposed in responders who would prefer this route.
The rate of nonintercepted serious medication errors in this pediatric population was reduced by 7% after the introduction of a commercial computerized physician order entry system, much less than previously reported for adults, and there was no change in the rate of injuries as a result of error. Several human-machine interface problems, particularly surrounding selection and dosing of pediatric medications, were identified. Additional refinements could lead to greater effects on error rates.
Computerized assistance reduced errors and the time required for drug administration calculations. A pattern of errors emerged, noting that reading/interpreting certain drug labels were more error prone. Optimizing the layout of drug labels could reduce the error rate for error-prone labels.
Inclusion of pictographic dosing diagrams as part of written medication instructions for infant acetaminophen may help parents provide doses of medication more accurately, especially those with low health literacy. High error rates, even among parents with adequate health literacy, suggest that additional study of strategies to optimize dosing is needed.
Implementation of a computerized provider order entry system, even in the early months after implementation, was not associated with an increase in mortality. Our experience suggests that careful design, build, implementation, and support can mitigate the risk of implementing new technology even in an ICU setting.
Interpretation of the literature was hindered by variation in definitions employed by different researchers, varying research methods and setting, and a lack of theory-based research. Overall, it would appear that our initial concern about MEs in pediatrics has been validated; however, we do not know the actual size of the problem. Further work to determine the incidence and causes of MEs in pediatrics is urgently needed, as well as evaluation of the best interventions to reduce them.
ADEs in community hospitals cost more than $3,000 dollars on average and an average increase of LOS of 3.1 days--increments that were similar to previous estimates from academic institutions. The LOS increase was actually greater. A number of approaches, including computerized provider order entry and bar coding, have the potential to improve medication safety.
Experts deemed a definition using harm or risk of harm as cut-off point as the most appropriate in Danish hospital settings. In addition, they agreed on a list of 60 error types covering the medication process. Interestingly, a substantial lower occurrence of medication errors was found when applied to historic data. The definition is in accordance with international taxonomy, thus is assumed to be applicable to modern healthcare settings abroad.
Medication errors occur across the entire spectrum of prescribing, dispensing, and administering, are common, and have a myriad of non-evidence based potential reduction strategies. Further research in this area needs a firmer standardisation for items such as dose ranges and definitions of medication errors, broader scope beyond inpatient prescribing errors, and prioritisation of implementation of medication error reduction strategies.
Pediatric medication errors can be reduced, although our understanding of optimal interventions remains hampered. Research should focus on understudied areas, use standardized definitions and outcomes, and evaluate cost-effectiveness.
Introduction of computerized physician order entry systems clearly reduces medication prescription errors; however, clinical benefit of computerized physician order entry systems in pediatric or ICU settings has not yet been demonstrated. The quality of the implementation process could be a decisive factor determining overall success or failure.
The review shows MA may have a role in the management of anorexia associated with CF. It is not possible to be conclusive for the other agents given the low numbers in the studies. Larger randomized, controlled trials of MA are necessary to confirm its safety and validate efficacy in CF.
In this pilot study, addition of oral corticosteroids to standard CF pulmonary exacerbation therapy did not result in a statistically significant effect on lung function or sputum markers of inflammation. Based on a trend toward improvement in pulmonary function with prednisone therapy, we obtained information for power calculations for a definitive study: 250 randomized subjects are required to detect a four-percentage-point treatment effect in FEV(1) percentage of predicted at day 14 to discriminate between null and alternative hypotheses.
In response to subcutaneous insulin lispro, postprandial glucose excursion was significantly diminished and insulin secretion was enhanced compared with a control meal in which no medication was given to patients with CFRD. The oral agent repaglinide resulted in lesser corrections in these parameters. Neither drug completely normalized glucose or insulin levels, suggesting that the doses chosen for this study were suboptimal. Placebo-controlled longitudinal studies comparing the effectiveness of repaglinide and insulin on glucose metabolic control as well as overall nutrition and body weight are needed to help determine optimal medical treatment of CFRD.
Our results confirm significant differences in long-term weight effects among atypical antipsychotics, consistent with findings from prior meta-analysis of antipsychotic-induced weight gain [Allison, D.B., Mentore, J.L., Heo, M., Chandler, L.P., Capelleri, J.C., Infante, M.C., Weiden, P.J., 1999. Antipsychotic induced weight gain: a comprehensive research synthesis. Am J Psychiatry 156, 1686-1696] and the CATIE schizophrenia study [Lieberman, J.A., Stroup, T.S., McEvoy, J.P., et al., 2005. Effectiveness of antipsychotic drugs in patients with chronic schizophrenia. N Engl J Med 353, 1209-1223].
The close relation between declining IGF-I and IGFBP3 concentrations and body mass index in patients with cystic fibrosis may simply reflect poor nutritional status and insulin hyposecretion. Nevertheless, IGF-I deficiency could also contribute towards the catabolism observed in these patients, and IGF-I SD scores correlated with other measures of clinical status such as the Shwachman score and FEV1.
Child-reported indicators of a pulmonary exacerbation tend to map onto those reported by adults. These results provide the rationale for the development of a single scale for school age children and adults that could be sensitive to progressive stages of CF disease.
Long term use of oral protein energy supplements did not result in an improvement in nutritional status or other clinical outcomes in children with cystic fibrosis who were moderately malnourished. Oral protein energy supplements should not be regarded as an essential part of the management of this group of children.
Montelukast sodium is clinically effective in treating virus-related wheezing, and clinical application for 4 weeks to 12 weeks can effectively relieve the symptoms of wheezing, improve lung function, and reduce the incidence rate of infantile asthma. Montelukast sodium also causes few adverse reactions.
In many areas, hospital treatment closely followed published guidance. However, some important deficiencies were noted and variations remain. As well as monitoring guideline implementation, national audit can highlight opportunities for research and improving care locally and nationally.
Methacholine responsiveness and peak flow variability assessed at age 11, together with markers of atopy (IgE and skin test reactivity to allergens) identify three different wheezing phenotypes in childhood: "transient early wheezing" limited to the first three years of life and unrelated to increased airway lability; "non-atopic wheezing" of the toddler and early school years associated with positive peak flow variability but not with methacholine hyperresponsiveness; and "IgE-associated wheeze/asthma" associated with persistent wheezing at any age and with methacholine hyperresponsiveness, peak flow variability, and markers of atopy.
Overall, there were no significant differences in visual acuity, scar size, and perforations between voriconazole- and natamycin-treated patients. There was a trend toward scraping being associated with worse outcomes. Application to Clinical Practice The benefit seen with voriconazole in the subgroup of patients with baseline visual acuity of 20/40 to 20/400 needs to be validated in a confirmatory clinical trial. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: 
Topical voriconazole seems to be a useful adjunct to natamycin in fungal keratitis not responding to topical natamycin. Intrastromal injections did not offer any beneficial effect over topical therapy.
PKP is an effective treatment for fungal keratitis that does not respond to antifungal medication. Early surgical intervention before the disease becomes advanced is recommended. It is critical that the surgical procedure remove the infected tissue in its entirety in order to effect a cure.
To the best of our knowledge, this review presents the epidemiological features and laboratory results of the largest series of fungal keratitis ever reported in the literature. Keratomycosis is predominant in young adults with trauma as the major predisposing factor. With fungal keratitis being a major ophthalmologic problem in the tropical regions of the world, data available on the epidemiological features of a large series would greatly help medical practitioners at primary and secondary health care centers in the management of the disease. A simple KOH preparation of corneal scraping alone is highly beneficial in confirming the diagnosis.
B. bassiana is a rare cause of keratitis that may show significant resistance to topical and systemic antifungals but was treated successfully with the addition of oral posaconazole to topical voriconazole. Confocal microscopy and corneal smears may be of benefit in identifying and directing therapy for this slow-growing fungus.
Stimulation therapy with drifting sinus gratings did not improve the development of visual acuity in the first phase of amblyopia treatment combined with minimal occlusion therapy. Accordingly, the stimulation therapy is not adequate to replace sufficient occlusion therapy. Whether this therapy could support patching therapy and improve acuity development in later therapy phases cannot be assumed from this trial.
Visual acuity can be improved with perceptual learning and patching in older children and adult patients with anisometropic amblyopia. The improvements in visual acuity achieved with patching were one line better than those achieved with perceptual learning. Perceptual learning might provide an alternative treatment in patients with anisometropic amblyopia.
Stimulation with drifting sinusoidal gratings improves the visual acuity of amblyopic eyes in a specific way. The effect might be accounted for by a synergy of spatial and temporal frequency in form vs. motion channels. A preliminary hypothesis is discussed and will be the subject of ongoing research. The presented method has been developed for the treatment of "delayed" amblyopia in the elder child. It is aimed to support and complement occlusion therapy. However, the reported results obtained over 10 days should be estimated only within the context of evaluation. By no means should the results be interpreted as a renewed pledge for a short-term treatment of amblyopia.
A change of approximately 2 octaves of stereoacuity threshold are needed to exceed test-retest variability for most stereoacuity tests. Changes <2 octaves cannot be distinguished from test-retest variability. When used to guide patient management, caution should be taken in interpreting changes in stereoacuity of <2 octaves.
Poor compliance with prescribed occlusion explains discrepancies in previous studies. No differences in the effect between the different prescribed patching periods were found. The dose-effect relationship observed should encourage development of methods such as educational intervention to improve visual outcome by increasing effective patching time.
Many types of misperceptions documented in the present study have appeared in previous investigations. This suggests that the wide range of distortions previously reported reflect genuine intersubject differences. It is proposed that nonveridical perception in human amblyopia has its origins in errors in the neural coding of orientation in primary visual cortex.
Children are able to identify their thoughts and opinions of their own health and to describe what impact their amblyopia treatment has had on their daily lives. Themes for the draft descriptive system for a pediatric self-reported amblyopia QoL instrument have been identified. A draft version of the CAT-QoL instrument has been developed. Further research is required to refine and assess the psychometric properties of the instrument.
Interventions that aim to improve compliance should take account of the difficulties and tensions experienced by parents, rather than simply treating non-compliance as resulting from information deficits. Practical support that builds on strategies described by parents is likely to be of benefit.
The result is a novel way to treat amblyopia, which allows binocular treatment. It is interactive, and as it is partially software based, can be adapted to suit the age/ability, and needs of the patient. This means that the treatment can be made captivating and enjoyable. Further research is on-going to determine the efficacy of this new modality in the treatment of amblyopia.
When used for children 7 to <13 years old, the Parent ATI and Child ATI have similar factor structures to each other and to the Parent ATI for children 3 to <7 years old. Atropine treatment was found to have less negative impact than patching.
Visuomotor adaptations in amblyopes are relatively minor and limited to aspects of movement planning. Their deficits in movement execution should benefit, however, from treatments that restore spatial acuity and binocularity to progressively normal levels and so deserve more explicit consideration when assessing therapeutic outcomes.
Our results demonstrate an association between IODs in acuity and crowding and, furthermore, between these IODs and the presence of stereo-vision. We suggest that the deficits derived from strabismus and anisometropia lay along a continuum with abilities observed during normal development.
Approximately one fourth of successfully treated amblyopic children experience a recurrence within the first year off treatment. For patients treated with 6 or more hours of daily patching, our data suggest that the risk of recurrence is greater when patching is stopped abruptly rather than when it is reduced to 2 hours per day prior to cessation. A randomized clinical trial of no weaning versus weaning in successfully-treated amblyopia is warranted to confirm these observational findings.
Poor parental fluency in the national language, a low level of education, and poor acuity at the start of treatment were predictors of low compliance. An educational program primarily aimed at the child improved compliance and reduced the number of children who did not comply with occlusion at all.
Real-world scene perception is impaired in amblyopia, with the poorest performance during amblyopic monocular and binocular viewing. Despite successful treatment of the amblyopic eye to normal acuity levels, perception of images in real-world scenes remains deficient in patients with a history of amblyopia.
This is the first study to show that patients with anisometropic amblyopia modified the temporal dynamics of eye-hand coordination during visually-guided reaching. They extended the planning and execution intervals after target fixation and increased the frequency of secondary, reach-related saccades. These may represent visuomotor strategies to compensate for the spatiotemporal visual deficits to achieve good reaching accuracy and precision.
It may be difficult to distinguish, at population level, between the lives of people with amblyopia and those without, in terms of several important outcomes. A pressing need exists for further concerted research on what it means to have amblyopia and, specifically, how this varies with severity and how it changes with treatment, so that screening programmes can best serve those who have the most to gain from early identification.
Very few studies address the appropriate choice of outcomes for clinical research with children, and in most paediatric specialties no research has been undertaken. Among the studies we did assess, very few involved parents or children in selecting outcomes that should be measured, and none directly involved children. Research should be undertaken to identify the best way to involve parents and children in assessing which outcomes should be measured in clinical trials.
Continuous objective monitoring of the amount of patching therapy received has provided insight into the dose-response relationship of occlusion therapy for amblyopia. Patching is most effective within the first few weeks of treatment, even for those in receipt of a relatively small dose. Further studies are needed to elucidate the neural basis for the dose-response functions.
Stereoacuity improved for almost one half of the study participants. Improvement was observed in both treatment phases. Factors associated with poor or nil stereoacuity at study entry and exit were poor visual acuity of the amblyopic eye and large-angle strabismus.
In children with anisometropic amblyopia of 20/40 to 20/100 inclusive, better posttreatment stereoacuity is associated with better baseline stereoacuity and better posttreatment amblyopic eye acuity. Even if their visual acuity deficit resolves, many children with anisometropic amblyopia have stereoacuity worse than that of nonamblyopic children of the same age.
Perceptual learning is effective in improving stereo vision in observers with amblyopia. These results, together with previous evidence, suggest that structured monocular and binocular training might be necessary to fully recover degraded visual functions in amblyopia. Chinese Abstract.
The decrease in ocular dominance imbalance in V2 was the neuronal change most closely associated with the observed reduction in the depth of amblyopia. The results suggest that the degree to which extrastriate neurons can maintain functional connections with the deprived eye (i.e., reducing undersampling for the affected eye) is the most significant factor associated with the beneficial effects of brief periods of unrestricted vision.
rhGH improved almost all intermediate measures of pulmonary function, height, and weight in patients with CF. Improvements in bone mineral content are also promising. However, with the exception of hospitalizations, the benefits on final health outcomes cannot be directly determined at this time.
Changing from a brand antiepileptic drug (AED) to a generic may result in seizures. This raises the concern that current Food and Drug therapeutic equivalence testing regulations may not be adequate for AEDs and suggests that more clinical evidence is needed. Physicians, pharmacists, patients, and policy makers should be aware that for some patients there may be risks associated with switching from brand to generic AEDs.
In this study, HRQOL improvement occurred primarily among patients who achieved complete seizure freedom. Many AED trials use a 50% seizure-frequency reduction criterion as a trial end point, but measurable impacts of this degree of reduction in seizure frequency on HRQOL in this sample were not observed. These results further support striving for seizure freedom as an epilepsy care goal.
This seizure severity measure assesses constructs that are generally distinct from HRQOL, except for moderate and broad associations between HRQOL and patient's perceptions of the average duration of recovery time after seizures. Recovery time may potentially be a useful clinical indicator of seizure severity that reflects meaningful impairment of HRQOL in adults with frequent seizures.
The health profile of self-reported epileptic subjects is similar to that obtained in studies involving defined epilepsy patients. In the general population, self-identification as having epilepsy carries a significant burden of illness, reflected in poorer health, psychosocial function, and quality of life, and higher health care resource use.
Prophylactic oral administration of bLF reduces the incidence of IFI in preterm VLBW neonates. No effect is seen on colonization. The protective effect on IFI is likely due to limitation of ability of fungal colonies to progress toward invasion and systemic disease in colonized infants.
There is a high association between adenoidal hypertrophy and rhinosinusitis in the context of an allergy clinic. Magnetic resonance imaging can document the changes in adenoid size associated with resolution of rhinosinusitis. Further studies are necessary to validate these pilot data and further assess the effects of medical treatment and the role of MRI in adenoidal hypertrophy.
Both types of nasal irrigation improved the endoscopic and microbiological features of patients with nonallergic chronic rhinosinusitis, whereas only SSBI irrigations significantly reduced total nasal resistance. Further investigations are needed based on longer treatments and follow-up periods to establish whether the HSS+ rate is useful for monitoring clinical improvements in chronic rhinosinusitis treated with nasal irrigations.
Once-daily intranasal irrigation for 6 weeks is safe and equally effective in the treatment of pediatric CRS using saline or saline plus gentamicin, and QoL was significantly improved after 3 weeks of irrigation in both groups. High tolerance, compliance, and effectiveness of irrigation support its use as a first-line treatment for pediatric CRS before considering surgical intervention.
Five-day treatment with antihistamine or corticosteroid, in addition to antibiotic, did not improve AOM outcomes. Antihistamine use during an acute episode of OM should be avoided, since the drug may prolong the duration of middle ear effusion. The efficacy of 7- to 10-day treatment of AOM with corticosteroid, in addition to antibiotic, deserves further investigation.
Patients receiving erythropoietin were appreciably less fatigued, complained of less severe physical symptoms, and had moderate improvements in exercise tolerance and depression compared with patients not receiving erythropoietin. At the doses used in this trial there was a higher incidence of hypertension and clotting of the vascular access in patients treated with erythropoietin.
Our simulations showed that the HKSJ method consistently results in more adequate error rates than the DL method, especially when the number of studies is small, and can easily be applied routinely in meta-analyses. Even with the HKSJ method, extra caution is needed when there are = <5 studies of very unequal sizes.
Influenza vaccination was effective in reducing the likelihood of influenza-like illness in nursing home residents. Effectiveness appeared to be related to age, which may function as a surrogate for related immunologic factors. Older nursing home residents should be targeted for newer vaccines and/or potential prophylactic use of antivirals.
Laparoscopy may carry some diagnostic advantage over open surgery in premenopausal women with suspected acute appendicitis. Patients found not to have acute appendicitis have a marginally shorter period of hospitalisation after laparoscopic intervention. The outcome following laparoscopic appendicectomy for confirmed acute appendicitis is at least equivalent to that achieved with conventional appendicectomy. Laparoscopic exploration is an acceptable option in premonopausal women requiring surgery for suspected acute appendicitis.
With LA significantly fewer narcotic injections are required and there is a more rapid return to normal activities. LA takes longer to perform and was associated with three intra-abdominal abscesses. In cases of simple acute appendicitis the hospital stay for LA is significantly shorter.
In this prospective randomized double-blinded trial, laparoscopic appendectomy appears to confer no significant advantage over open appendectomy for postoperative pain or lost work days. It does carry an increase in operating room costs and, contrary to other reports, hospital stay is not shortened. Further studies are needed to determine if specific populations, such as the obese or women, may benefit from a minimally invasive approach to appendicitis.
Laparoscopic appendectomy in children is not associated with the same advantages reported in adults. LA is a more expensive alternative and offers no advantages related to pain relief, length of stay, return to normal activities, or morbidity.
While laparoscopic appendectomy is associated with statistically significant but clinically questionable advantages over open appendectomy, a laparoscopic approach is relatively less expensive. The estimated difference in total costs of treatment (direct and indirect costs) was at least $2000 in more than 60% of the bootstrapped iterations. The economic significance and implications favoring a laparoscopic approach cannot be ignored.
The results of this prospective randomized trial showed that there were no significant advantages of laparoscopic appendectomy over open appendectomy for the treatment of male patients with suspected appendicitis. We recommend that the use of laparoscopy be limited to men with atypical pain of uncertain diagnosis and in obese patients.
All women of child-bearing age suspected of having acute appendicitis should undergo diagnostic laparoscopy prior to the planned appendicectomy, regardless of the certainty of the preoperative diagnosis. This is currently the only way to reduce the negative appendicectomy rate and establish a correct diagnosis allowing prompt and appropriate treatment. In male patients and postmenopausal women one may proceed directly to emergency appendicectomy.
The introduction of laparoscopic techniques did not modify the operative indications for treatment of appendicitis. An increase in the number of normal appendices removed was not observed. The number of perforations and the incidence of wound infections was significantly reduced in the second period.
Misunderstanding of over-the-counter cold products is common and could result in harm if medications are given inappropriately. Label language and graphics seem to influence inappropriate interpretation of over-the-counter product age indications. Poorer parental numeracy skills may increase the misinterpretation of these products. Opportunities exist for the Food and Drug Administration and manufacturers to revise existing labels to improve parental comprehension and enhance child safety.
The combination of an opioid and a sympathomimetic agent in the CCS may cause a special, distinct euphoretic effect. This effect, along with the low price, easy availability and 'pure' preparation of CCS, may be responsible for the rapidly rising popularity of the CCS as drugs of abuse in India.
Long-term, model-predicted graft survival and endothelial densities are higher after DALK than after PK. The big-bubble technique gives better results than manual dissection and PK. Compared with PK, manual dissection provides higher survival of both the corneal endothelium and graft, but lower visual acuity.
One year after DALK performed without perforation of Descemet's membrane, EC loss is significantly lower, whereas the BSCVA is comparable to that in the PK group. In addition, no endothelial rejection occurred in the DALK group. However, Descemet's membrane perforation remains a major complication in DALK and warrants improvements to standardize the big-bubble technique.
This study shows that DALK is more costly and more effective as compared with PK. Results on the 25-item National Eye Institute Visual Functioning Questionnaire were in favor of DALK, and endothelial cell loss in DALK patients remained stable after 6 months, whereas cell loss in PK patients continued. Furthermore, DALK procedures performed without perforation of the Descemet membrane were more effective. However, because it is unknown what society is willing to pay for an additional improved patient, cost effectiveness of DALK within a limited follow-up period of 12 months is unclear. Cost effectiveness of DALK may improve over time because of lower graft failure.
This study confirms good visual results from both PK and DLK in keratoconus with similarly high percentages reaching 6/9 BCVA. DLK appears to cause less astigmatism and also has the advantage of no endothelial graft rejection. The apparent cost, however, is a reduction in the likelihood of achieving 6/6 BCVA.
Because of the safety and low frequency of complications, epikeratophakia is recommended as the grafting procedure of choice in the majority of mentally retarded with keratoconus. In selected cases (good cooperation, age < or =40 years, and a good peripheral corneal thickness) penetrating keratoplasty may be performed, which, if uncomplicated, often will give better functional/optical results.
DALK had a higher overall failure rate than PK. The difference was largely accounted for by early failures, which appeared to be related to the surgeon's experience. DALK recipients were less likely to achieve BCVA of 6/6 than were PK recipients and were more likely to have -3 D or worse myopia.
Compared with PK, DALK has a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio and, resources permitting, should be considered as a first-line treatment for keratoconus. Additional studies are needed to confirm the expected advantages of DALK over PK when it comes to long-term graft failure rates.
As the majority of ectatic disorders such as keratoconus occur in young people, long-term endothelial cell survival following treatment with keratoplasty is essential for the long-term visual ability. Our finding that corneal endothelial cell loss in the DALK group occurs at a slower rate than in the PK group suggests DALK as a safer alternative to PK in these selected patients.
Parameters for reducing ametropia after grafting of keratoconus patients can be developed for each surgeon based on trephine disparity dependent on preoperative keratoscopic values of the recipient midperipheral cornea and PAL. If the PAL is between 19.0 and 21.0 mm, preoperative midperipheral corneal videokeratoscopy to choose same-size or 0.25 mm different donor and recipient trephine blades is useful to achieve refractive results approximating emmetropia with the described technique.
Penetrating keratoplasty is no longer an automatic choice for the surgical treatment for keratoconus; DLK seems to be a safe alternative. Best-corrected visual acuity, refractive results, and complication rates are similar after DLK and PK. Deep lamellar keratoplasty is more technically challenging but allows the risk of endothelial rejection to be avoided and may reduce the risk of late endothelial failure.
Maximum depth anterior LKP has some important advantages when compared with other types of anterior lamellar keratoplasty or penetrating keratoplasty, but it remains a challenging procedure. A new technique considerably facilitates this operation and reduces intraoperative complications.
Although both vertical coma and the I-S topographic value were useful for distinguishing among the three study groups, a combination of wavefront aberrometry and videokeratography appears to be the most sensitive way for distinguishing among normal eyes, eyes with suspected keratoconus, and eyes with early keratoconus.
There was no postoperative endothelial rejection reaction with DLK, and restoration of postoperative visual acuity was quite adequate. Compared with penetrating keratoplasty, DLK allows endothelial cell counts to be maintained for a longer period. In addition, results can be expected to be more consistent over the long term with DLK.
Boston keratoprosthesis is a viable means of managing repeat graft failure and ocular chemical injury outside of North America, with similar visual acuity outcomes, retention rates, and incidence rates of postoperative complications to those obtained by North American surgeons.
Infectious keratitis develops in 13.6% of eyes after keratoprosthesis implantation, with a similar rate of culture-positive bacterial and fungal keratitis. The observed rate of microbial keratitis suggests the need for additional topical antimicrobial prophylaxis after keratoprosthesis implantation in eyes at higher risk, such as those with persistent corneal epithelial defect formation or prolonged vancomycin use.
Formation of RPM is a common complication of keratoprosthesis surgery, occurring in approximately one-third of cases. Eyes at the highest risk of RPM development are those receiving corneal replacement for infectious keratitis and aniridia.
Retention rates were excellent, and best-corrected visual acuities improved in the vast majority of patients. Complications can occur and require frequent follow-up to monitor and treat glaucoma progression, endophthalmitis, and inflammation. Patient compliance is of paramount importance. Despite the potential complications, the Boston KPro provides visual improvement in patients with an otherwise poor prognosis.
The Boston type 1 keratoprosthesis is a viable option after multiple keratoplasty failures or in conditions with a poor prognosis for primary keratoplasty. Patients with autoimmune disease are at higher risk for complications. The University of California Davis experience seems equivalent to the initial report of the Boston Keratoprosthesis Study Group. With longer follow-up, additional surgical procedures may be required but good anatomic and functional outcomes can be maintained.
Keratoprosthesis implantation remains a viable option for salvaging vision. A significant number of patients lost vision over the postoperative course. Glaucoma and complications related to glaucoma surgery are significant challenges to maintaining good vision after keratoprosthesis surgery. Our study highlights the need for long-term follow-up and a team approach to management, and points to a more guarded long-term visual prognosis after surgery.
Fourier domain AS-OCT is a useful noninvasive imaging technique in patients with a KPro and provides the ability to identify changes that are sometimes difficult to appreciate by clinical evaluation. The higher resolution Fourier domain systems may aid in the clinical diagnosis and management of pathology that might not be imaged with instruments of lower resolution. AS-OCT has the potential for monitoring the anatomic stability of an implanted KPro and may also help to monitor for complications. Moreover, high-resolution imaging may enhance our understanding of periprosthetic anatomy.
The Boston Type 1 keratoprosthesis is a valid option for high-risk patients. The design improvements in the Boston keratoprosthesis, as well as the daily implementation of the therapeutic methods, have notably diminished occurrence of the most serious complications, such as corneal necrosis and endophthalmitis. As such, glaucoma and its subsequent complications now stand as the most prevalent prognostic factor in the long term.
The Boston KPro design with a back plate containing holes protects the overlying corneal tissue from necrosis and melts. This improved situation is likely due to increased aqueous access and better nutrition to the corneal graft cells. In addition, this study confirms earlier work regarding the particular corneal fragility of patients with autoimmune diseases.
The most important risk factor for endophthalmitis after these keratoprostheses was found to be preoperative diagnosis. The rate of infection was very high in Stevens-Johnson syndrome and ocular cicatricial pemphigoid, moderate in chemical burns, and low in noncicatrizing corneal disease.
KPro in SJS has improved, largely because of the introduction of vancomycin prophylaxis and better glaucoma treatment. It seems to be superior to standard penetrating keratoplasty, with or without allografted stem cell transplantation, as judged from the literature. However, the outcome of the KPro in SJS is still substantially less favorable than in nonautoimmune diseases.
Early results suggest that the AlphaCor, previously known as the Chirila keratoprosthesis (Chirila KPro), has a low incidence of the complications traditionally associated with keratoprostheses and can be effective in restoring vision in patients considered untreatable by conventional corneal transplantation. Importantly, the device can be replaced with a donor graft in the event of development of a significant complication. A history of ocular herpes simplex is a contraindication to AlphaCor implantation. Ongoing monitoring of clinical outcomes in all patients will allow the indications for AlphaCor, as opposed to donor grafts, to be determined.
The extensive lamellar corneal surgery involved in AlphaCor implantation may precipitate reactivation of latent HSV such that reactivation and resultant inflammation reduce device biointegration and facilitate melting of corneal stromal tissue anterior to the device. Although there may be some benefit from systemic antiviral medication, the current series is not large enough to demonstrate such a benefit, and melting can occur despite medication. The statistically significant difference in outcomes between recipients of AlphaCor with and without HSV is evidence that a history of HSV should be an exclusion factor for AlphaCor surgery.
Inactivated varicella vaccine given before hematopoietic-cell transplantation and during the first 90 days thereafter reduces the risk of zoster. The protection correlates with reconstitution of CD4 T-cell immunity against varicella-zoster virus.
Resection of metastatic disease after chemotherapy is possible in a small but important subset of patients with MCRC, particularly after receiving an oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy regimen, with encouraging OS and TTP observed in these highly selected patients.
Selective internal radiation treatment is a promising new modality in the treatment of patients with hepatic colorectal cancer metastases as part of a multimodality approach. A chemo-selective internal radiation treatment neoadjuvant approach has a potential to improve therapeutic outcomes. Clinical studies in neoadjuvant and salvage settings are needed for more concrete outcome data and design of optimal multimodality treatment strategies.
In this sample of patients with disseminated colorectal cancer the chemotherapy regimen was an effective form of palliative treatment.
For patients who undergo resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer, postoperative treatment with a combination of hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine and intravenous fluorouracil improves the outcome at two years.
For patients who undergo resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer, postoperative treatment with a combination of hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine and intravenous fluorouracil improves the outcome at two years.
This randomized study revealed that short term HAI of 5-FU after curative resection of colorectal hepatic metastases is effective in preventing the recurrence of disease without any serious complications.
The proposed risk-score grading predicted the survival differences extremely well. Estimated survival as determined by the Cox proportional hazards model was similar to that determined by the Kaplan-Meier method. Verification and further improvements of the proposed system are awaited by other centers or international collaborative studies.
For patients who undergo resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer, postoperative treatment with a combination of hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine and intravenous fluorouracil improves the outcome at two years.
This small phase 2 randomised trial demonstrated that the addition of a single administration of SIR-Spheres to a regimen of systemic fluorouracil/leucovorin chemotherapy significantly increased both treatment related response, time to PD, and survival with acceptable toxicity. The combination of SIR-Spheres plus systemic chemotherapy is now the subject of ongoing trials to further define patient benefit.
Modern chemotherapy allows 12.5% of patients with unresectable CRLM to be rescued by liver surgery. Despite a high rate of recurrence, 5-year survival is 33% overall, with a wide use of repeat hepatectomies and extrahepatic resections. Four preoperative risk factors could select the patients most likely to benefit from this strategy.
Selective internal radiation therapy represents an effective means of controlling liver metastases from colorectal adenocarcinoma. Clinical trials have demonstrated improved local control of disease and survival with relatively low toxicity. Investigations of SIRT for other hepatic malignancies and in combination with newer chemotherapy agents and targeted biologic therapies are under way or in planning. A well-integrated team involving interventional radiology, nuclear medicine, medical oncology, surgical oncology, medical physics, and radiation oncology is essential for a successful program. Careful selection of patients through the combined expertise of the team can maximize therapeutic efficacy and reduce the potential for adverse effects.
In the past, randomised clinical trials of chemotherapy in advanced ovarian cancer have been much too small to detect the degree of benefit which this overview suggests is realistic for currently available chemotherapeutic regimens. Hence a new trial comparing cisplatin, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (CAP) with carboplatin has been launched and plans to accrue 2000 patients.
Inactivated varicella vaccine given before hematopoietic-cell transplantation and during the first 90 days thereafter reduces the risk of zoster. The protection correlates with reconstitution of CD4 T-cell immunity against varicella-zoster virus.
The results obtained in this study indicate that influenza vaccine is immunogenic in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, despite their serious disease.
Most children with cancer studied were at risk of influenza infection. A significant response to immunisation was seen, supporting annual influenza vaccination for children being treated for cancer.
In children with leukemia who receive the live attenuated varicella vaccine, the subsequent incidence of zoster is lower than in children who have natural varicella infections.
Despite convincing evidence that patients lose protective antibodies to vaccine-preventable diseases following allogeneic BMT and accumulating data showing the safety and efficacy of many vaccines after BMT, vaccines are underutilized and schedules vary widely at US transplant centers. National guidelines for optimal doses and timing of vaccines after BMT are warranted.
Non-immune cancer children can be effectively vaccinated against chickenpox at the defined period. However, the safety of chickenpox vaccine in these immunosuppressed children needs to be further studied.
Influenza vaccination given to children with cancer was safe and induced immune reaction comparable to healthy children, although patients on chemotherapy and/or with chemotherapy-related conditions had a limited ability to produce a sufficient immune response.
This study confirmed the low incidence of response or efficacy to the influenza vaccine reported in previous studies. Only a small percentage (10%) of immunosuppressed patients with malignant lymphoma responded with a 4-fold increase in their antibody titer to the major antigens of the 2003 influenza vaccine. Most interestingly, less than 50% of the aged-matched control population studied responded with a 4-fold increase in their antibody titer. Additional studies are needed to determine methods for improving the efficacy of the vaccine and the effectiveness of the influenza vaccination program in preventing influenza infections in the United States.
Our finding of loss of antibodies against measles and rubella in children treated with intensive chemotherapy suggests that reimmunization of these patients is necessary after completion of the treatment. To determine reimmunization schedules for children treated with chemotherapy, vaccination responses need to be studied further.
The majority of pediatric oncologists routinely recommend influenza vaccine for children being treated for cancer; however, a significant number of pediatric oncologists do not. Clarification of the benefit of influenza vaccine for children with cancer and the institution of practice guidelines may increase the use of the influenza vaccine among pediatric oncologists.
While the GMT after trivalent influenza immunization in children with ALL were significantly lower than those seen in healthy children, the majority of children with ALL had 4-fold rises in HAI titers. Children receiving maintenance chemotherapy for ALL should receive yearly influenza vaccine.
Influenza vaccine is effective and well tolerated in patients with CLPD and MM. No contraindications exist for its use, and it should become a routine practice, in order to prevent serious complications during the influenza epidemic season.
Chemotherapy induced different rates of loss of protective antibody titers depending on the type of vaccination administered. This finding may be responsible for the failure of vaccination programs for patients who have undergone chemotherapy. The administration of a booster dose after the completion of chemotherapy is a simple and cost-effective way to restore humoral immunity against most vaccine-preventable diseases.
Cardia inflammation is a stimulus for cardia intestinal metaplasia, and a reduction in inflammation may allow the metaplastic mucosa to revert to normal.
In patients with atrophic gastritis or intestinal metaplasia, annual surveillance can detect most new tumours at an early stage with a major improvement in survival. Potential benefits of such a surveillance programme are large and warrant further investigation in a multicentre randomised controlled trial.
In a population with high risk for gastric cancer, the extension of intestinal metaplasia correlates with the extent of its "incomplete" phenotype and is significantly associated with increased cancer risk. Both the extent and location of intestinal metaplasia along the lesser curvature (from the cardia to the prepyloric zones) identify patients with the highest cancer risk.
Patients with premalignant gastric lesions are at considerable risk of gastric cancer. As current surveillance of these patients is inconsistent with their cancer risk, development of guidelines is indicated.
The follow-up of patients with atrophic chronic gastritis or intestinal metaplasia is both feasible and cost-effective if improved accurate endoscopic examination of gastric mucosa together with non-invasive assessment of gastric mucosal status are used to identify individuals at high-risk for development of gastric cancer.
The prevalence of H. pylori infection was very high in peptic ulcers of the duodenum and stomach and gastric carcinomas of Japanese patients. Biopsy specimens for evaluation of H. pylori infection should be taken routinely from both the greater curvature of the antrum and corpus. Immunohistochemical staining should be used to assay for H. pylori when few organisms are present or eradication therapy has been used.
Our results indicate that for an accurate diagnosis and assessment, biopsies should be taken from the following four sites: the lesser curvatures of the mid-antrum (site 1) and middle body (site 3), and the greater curvatures of the mid-antrum (site 4) and middle body (site 6) of the stomach.
Although EGC showed a relatively long natural history in general, it progressed to the advanced stage with time and led to death from gastric cancer for the most part if left untreated.
The combination of serum pepsinogen and anti-H pylori antibody provides a good predictive marker for the development of gastric cancer.
H. pylori eradication results in remarkable reduction in the severity and activity of chronic gastritis, marked resolution of intestinal metaplasia in the antrum. On the other hand, continuous H. pylori infection leads to progressive aggravation of atrophy and intestinal metaplasia.
A simple analysis of funnel plots provides a useful test for the likely presence of bias in meta-analyses, but as the capacity to detect bias will be limited when meta-analyses are based on a limited number of small trials the results from such analyses should be treated with considerable caution.
Our data indicate that the use of summary scores to identify trials of high quality is problematic. Relevant methodological aspects should be assessed individually and their influence on effect sizes explored.
Failure to identify all relevant trials for systematic review could result in bias. We developed a highly sensitive search strategy for the retrieval of reports of controlled trials for use with PubMed that retrieves more relevant citations (greater sensitivity) and fewer non-relevant citations (greater precision) than the original Cochrane search strategy.
In patients who receive an allogeneic bone marrow transplant as treatment for acute myelogenous or lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, or aplastic anemia and who are free of their original disease two years later, the disease is probably cured. However, for many years after transplantation, the mortality among these patients is higher than that in a normal population.
Laparoscopy can be considered super imposable to standard longitudinal laparotomy in identifying not optimally resectable advanced ovarian cancer patients.
The reliability of laparoscopy in assessing the chance of optimal cytoreduction can be improved by using a simple scoring system.
Laparoscopy can be used for diagnosis, triage, and debulking of patients with advanced ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer and is technically feasible in a well-selected population.
The goal of primary surgery should be complete resection. The prognostic impact of tumor biology seemed to be partially overruled by residual tumor and further evaluation of biologic factors should stratify for residual tumor.
Clinical judgment of residual disease after primary cytoreductive surgery in patients with advanced-stage EOC shows limited accuracy. Given the poor interobserver reproducibility, prediction models could attribute to uniform treatment decisions and improve counseling.
Despite advances in the use of chemotherapy and biologic agents, surgery remains an important modality in the diagnosis and treatment of ovarian cancer.
For patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma in whom primary cytoreductive surgery was considered to be maximal, the addition of secondary cytoreductive surgery to postoperative chemotherapy with paclitaxel plus cisplatin does not improve progression-free survival or overall survival.
The study gave no evidence that screening for lung cancer by chest X-ray is beneficial in terms of reducing mortality. Based on the results of this study, there is no justification to recommend semiannual screening as a component of a comprehensive lung cancer control program.
A trial of the magnitude, duration, and contamination of the MLP would have a less than 20% probability of showing significant benefit from screening; however, long-term annual screening might result in a modest decrease in lung cancer mortality, ranging from 0% to 13%. A greater benefit would accrue from improved detection and treatment.
Extended follow-up of MLP participants did not reveal a lung cancer mortality reduction for the intervention arm. Similar mortality but better survival for individuals in the intervention arm indicates that some lesions with limited clinical relevance may have been identified in the intervention arm.
The persistence of excess cases in the intervention arm after 16 additional years of follow-up provides continued support for overdiagnosis in lung cancer screening.
In the baseline screen, nearly half the cancers were stage I. Whether this experience results in a reduction in lung cancer mortality is yet to be seen.
Low dose CT detected 8 bronchogenic carcinomas in more than 700 heavy smokers. All eight were resectable. Pulmonary nodules measuring up to 10 mm were found in 40% of smokers. The significance of these small lesions has remained unclear.
False-positive screening test results are uncommon and usually manageable without biopsy; compared with no screening, such screenings permit diagnosis at substantially earlier and thus more curable stages. Annual repetition of CT screening is sufficient to minimize symptom-prompted interim diagnoses of nodule-associated malignancies.
Annual spiral CT screening can detect lung cancer that is curable.
Recruitment by mail of high risk subjects for a lung cancer screening RCT is feasible but not efficient. Results of the baseline screening test in the active arm of the ITALUNG trial are substantially in line with those of RCT and observational studies.
For high-risk populations, no screening modality has been shown to alter mortality outcomes. We recommend that individuals undergo screening only when it is administered as a component of a well-designed clinical trial with appropriate human subjects' protections.
The war against cancer is far from over. Observed changes in mortality due to cancer primarily reflect changing incidence or early detection. The effect of new treatments for cancer on mortality has been largely disappointing. The most promising approach to the control of cancer is a national commitment to prevention, with a concomitant rebalancing of the focus and funding of research.
In terms of reduced risk of lung cancer mortality, smoking cessation is beneficial at any age, with much greater benefits accruing to those quitting at younger ages. Unlike previous research, which has primarily examined the effects of cessation as a function of years since quitting, our results demonstrate that age at cessation has a major impact on subsequent lung cancer risks.
Compared to healthy volunteers, patients with PLC had abnormal breath test findings that were consistent with the accelerated catabolism of alkanes and monomethylated alkanes. A predictive model employing nine of these VOCs exhibited sufficient sensitivity and specificity to be considered as a screen for lung cancer in a high-risk population such as adult smokers.
We found specific patterns of protein expression of the airway epithelium that accurately classify bronchial and alveolar tissue with normal histology from preinvasive bronchial lesions and from invasive lung cancer. Although further study is needed to validate this approach and to identify biomarkers of tumor development, this is a first step toward a new proteomic characterization of the human model of lung cancer tumorigenesis.
This study provides empirical evidence that inadequate methodological approaches in controlled trials, particularly those representing poor allocation concealment, are associated with bias. Readers of trial reports should be wary of these pitfalls, and investigators must improve their design, execution, and reporting of trials.
Emphysema on CT scan and airflow obstruction on spirometry are related to lung cancer in a high-risk population. Emphysema is independently related to lung cancer. Both radiographic emphysema and airflow obstruction should be considered when assessing lung cancer risk.
BCNU-W has not been proven to confer a significant advantage in survival for patients with grade III tumours when treated with the drug, compared with placebo. There does not appear to be a survival advantage for patients with grade IV tumours. No increase in PFS has been shown. Limited evidence suggests a small but significant advantage in both overall survival and PFS with TMZ among a mixed population with grade IV and grade III (7-8%) tumours. However, it remains unclear whether this is true in grade IV tumours alone. On the basis of best available evidence, the authors consider that neither BCNU-W nor TMZ is likely to be considered cost-effective by NHS decision-makers. However, data for the model were drawn from limited evidence of variable quality. Tumour type is clearly important in assessing patient prognosis with different treatments. Grade IV tumours are commonest and appear to have least chance of response. There were too few grade III tumours included to carry out a formal assessment, but they appear to respond better and drive results for both drugs. Future use of genetic and biomarkers may help identify subtypes which will respond, but current licensing indications do not specify these. Further research is suggested into the effectiveness of these drugs, and also into areas such as genetic markers, chemotherapy regimens, patient and carer quality of life, and patient views on survival advantages vs treatment disadvantages.
Gliadel is an option for selected patients with newly diagnosed malignant glioma where a near gross total resection is possible. No evidence is available comparing Gliadel with systemic therapy, and a decision to combine Gliadel with systemic therapy should be made for patients individually. The patient population that would benefit from Gliadel (age, histology, and performance status) is unclear; further investigation is needed. Gliadel is also an option for patients with surgically resectable recurrent malignant glioma.
The incidence rates of primary and secondary intracranial tumours in Lothian were more than twice those previously reported in the United Kingdom. Intracranial tumours are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the United Kingdom, and further research into their aetiology and treatment is urgently required.
The addition of temozolomide to radiotherapy for newly diagnosed glioblastoma resulted in a clinically meaningful and statistically significant survival benefit with minimal additional toxicity.
Methods do exist for including valuable information from two-period, two-treatment cross-over trials into quantitative reviews. However, poor reporting of cross-over trials will often impede attempts to perform a meta-analysis using the available methods.
In this early terminated study, the TEP regimen was significantly more toxic than the EP regimen. The TEP regimen is associated with significant toxicity and mortality, and should not be used outside of a protocol setting. For future investigations, dose and schedule modifications are necessary to reduce toxicity.
In this prospective randomized study 60 Gy. external radiation therapy administered between 3 and 4 months after radical prostatectomy for pathologically locally advanced prostate cancer had no significant influence on urinary continence.
Adjuvant radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy for a man with pT3N0M0 prostate cancer significantly reduces the risk of metastasis and increases survival.
Adjuvant post-RRP RT was advantageous in comparison to salvage RT if the side effects of RT were estimated to be negligible. However, with moderate incidence/severity of RT side effects, salvage RT was advantageous. The findings herein must be tested in a prospective study in which both health-related quality of life and cancer control are documented in patients receiving adjuvant versus salvage post-RRP RT. Further work is needed to better estimate parameters entered into the model to determine the precise transition point between adjuvant and salvage RT with modern RT techniques.
Although progression after radical prostatectomy usually occurs early, reflecting the impact of clinical under staging, a significant number of men, including those with organ confined cancers, will continue to have disease progression after 5 years. Patients undergoing radical prostatectomy should be subjected to long-term followup to allow the option of early intervention should progression occur.
Pelvic RT may achieve sustained remission of prostate cancer for about half of patients with a rising PSA after RP, at least in the intermediate term. Doses > 65 Gy are recommended. 3DRT may offer improved disease-free survival over non-3D approaches, however, this issue requires further study.
Radical prostatectomy was associated with a reduction in the rate of death from prostate cancer. Men with extracapsular tumor growth may benefit from adjuvant local or systemic treatment. (Funded by the Swedish Cancer Society and the National Institutes of Health.).
Clinical studies reporting erectile function outcomes after localized prostate cancer treatment often demonstrate poorly interpretable and inconsistent manners of assessment as well as widely disparate rates of erectile dysfunction and erectile function. Future studies must apply scientifically rigorous methodology and standard outcomes measures to advance this field of study.
Patients with Gleason score 8 or greater, positive seminal vesicles or lymph nodes, or a PSA recurrence within the first year following surgery rarely benefit from radiation therapy. As the interval to PSA recurrence increases, the likelihood of responding to radiation therapy increases substantially. These parameters are useful in the selection of patients with prostate cancer recurrences who are likely to benefit from radiation to the prostatic bed.
A high degree of variability in the definition of biochemical recurrence exists following treatment for localized prostate cancer. Strict definitions for biochemical recurrence are necessary to identify men at risk for disease progression and to allow meaningful comparisons among patients treated similarly. The Panel acknowledges the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology criteria and future modifications thereof for those receiving radiation therapy and recommends the newly developed American Urological Association criteria for those treated with radical prostatectomy. The purpose for the establishment of this standard is for data reporting purposes and for comparison of similarly treated patients. It is not intended to represent a threshold value for which to initiate treatment. The Panel acknowledges that the clinical decision to initiate treatment will be dependent on multiple factors including patient and physician interaction rather than a specific prostate specific antigen threshold value.
DVHs of the rectum are significantly correlated with late bleeding for patients irradiated at 66.6-70.2 Gy after radical prostatectomy.
Early use of PPRT is effective and well tolerated in patients at risk of, or with proven, local recurrence.
Using 3 preoperative or postoperative parameters, these nomograms can easily be used to determine the 3, 5, 7 and 10-year biochemical recurrence-free survival probabilities among men who undergo radical retropubic prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer in the modern era.
Although salvage radiotherapy is associated with unclear survival benefits, it adversely affects sexual and bowel function. Until randomized clinical trials demonstrate disease-specific survival benefits for salvage radiotherapy, the HRQOL detriments of additional therapy must be weighed against improved PSA progression-free survival.
Radical retropubic prostatectomy provided long-term cancer control in 75% of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer and was effective in the majority of those with high risk cancer, including T2c or biopsy Gleason sum 8 to 10, or PSA greater than 20 ng./ml. Further research should address identifying patients who can safely avoid aggressive therapy.
At 10 years, patients with a PSA recurrence after radical prostatectomy for localized disease have an excellent overall survival equivalent to those without a detectable PSA. Within this period, the clinical significance of a detectable PSA needs to be further evaluated.
A nomogram based on age, DRE, PSA and %fPSA can highly accurately predict the outcome of prostate biopsy in men at risk for PCa.
In the current study, positive surgical margins were found to be a significant predictor of disease recurrence in patients with pT3a/b NO prostate carcinoma, a finding that is independent of PSA, Gleason score, and DNA ploidy. The benefit of adjuvant therapy in optimizing recurrence-free survival remains to be tested.
The effective doses and dose-response relation observed with RT after prostatectomy are consistent with the presence of macroscopic-equivalent disease for salvage patients and about a tenth of the residual disease for adjuvant patients. Greater doses would potentially achieve significantly greater disease-free control rates. A randomized trial with 250 patients comparing 64 vs. 70 Gy for salvage RT or 60 vs. 66 Gy for adjuvant RT would be capable of addressing this issue.
By using biochemical failure as an endpoint, more failures are documented after RP or RT than previously suspected. However, case selection using pretreatment PSA levels and biopsy GS can result in large differences in control rates. Significantly more high-risk patients are treated with RT. By stratifying cases using PSA and biopsy GS, treatment outcome is equivalent after either radiotherapy or surgery. Further follow-up is needed to confirm these findings after 5 years. For low-risk cases, there is no difference between radiotherapy and surgery, even when negative margins are achieved. Positive surgical margins predict for poor outcome even in low-risk cases. Standard radiotherapy alone should not be used for lesions with aggressive features. The outcome in high-risk cases is better with surgery if negative margins are achieved. For such high-risk patients, several new treatment approaches are currently being investigated with either high-dose conformal radiotherapy with or without androgen blockade, or neoadjuvant androgen blockade or radical prostatectomy.
A CTV with an approximately cylindrical shape (approximately 4 x 3 cm) centered 5 mm posterior and 3 mm inferior to the urethro-vesical anastomosis was defined. Such CTV may reduce the irradiation of normal nontarget tissue in the pelvis potentially improving treatment tolerance.
We found a consistent pattern of better QOL outcomes at each follow-up assessment during the first 6 months of treatment for orchiectomized patients with metastatic prostate cancer who received placebo versus flutamide. Improvement over time was evident in both treatment groups but more so for patients receiving placebo.
To date, adjuvant RT has not been shown to improve overall survival compared with active surveillance. Longer follow-up from completed RCTs is required to accurately assess this outcome. Adjuvant RT does, however, significantly improve bPFS and is not associated with excess severe late toxicity.
RT is effective in select patients after RP. Given the low PSA velocity consistent with persistent local disease in nearly 50% of patients in whom RT failed, more effective local therapy is needed after RP in high-risk patients.
An undetectable PSA level following salvage radiation therapy is more frequently achieved in men with lower pre-radiation serum PSA and those without seminal vesicle or lymph node involvement. Overall approximately a fourth of men with PSA evidence of cancer progression following RRP had a durable response 10 years after the initiation of salvage radiation therapy in the protocols used in this patient cohort.
In our current series approximately half of the patients treated with radiotherapy for an isolated elevation of serum PSA after prostatectomy were free of biochemical relapse at 5 years of followup. Radiotherapy may be given in this setting with modest long-term morbidity.
RRP can be performed with excellent survival outcomes. Favorable clinicopathological parameters and treatment in the PSA era are associated with improved cancer control.
The IIEF addresses the relevant domains of male sexual function (that is, erectile function, orgasmic function, sexual desire, intercourse satisfaction, and overall satisfaction), is psychometrically sound, and has been linguistically validated in 10 languages. This questionnaire is readily self-administered in research or clinical settings. The IIEF demonstrates the sensitivity and specificity for detecting treatment-related changes in patients with erectile dysfunction.
These consensus guidelines have been developed to give clinical and technical guidance to radiation oncologists and urologists in the management of high risk post-prostatectomy patients.
Gleason score, preradiotherapy PSA level, surgical margins, PSADT, and seminal vesicle invasion are prognostic variables for a durable response to salvage radiotherapy. Selected patients with high-grade disease and/or a rapid PSADT who were previously thought to be destined to develop progressive metastatic disease may achieve a durable response to salvage radiotherapy.
We confirm that a PSM has a significant adverse impact on PFP after RP in multivariate analysis using multiple statistical methods to account for patients who received AT. While prostate cancer screening strategies have resulted in a majority of men having organ confined disease at RP, surgeons should continue to strive to reduce the rate of positive surgical margins to improve cancer control outcomes.
Although a total dose of 60 Gy was effective at a low pre-RT PSA levels with short follow-up, an RT dose > or =60 Gy resulted in superior biochemical outcomes even in patients with a pre-RT PSA < or =0.50 ng/ml.
Patients are at prolonged risk for BF and CF following RP. Regardless of the timing of the initial PSA recurrence the PSA doubling time is the most powerful predictor of progression, stratifying patients with BF into high and low risk groups for CF.
We propose anatomic boundaries for the CTV (prostate bed) and present evidence supporting its validity. In the absence of gross recurrence, the role of MRI in delineating the CTV remains to be confirmed. The CTV is larger than historically practiced at our institution and should be encompassed by a microscopic tumoricidal dose.
In the surgical management of upper tract TCC, the laparoscopic approach does not affect long-term oncological control. Tumor stage and grade are important prognostic factors in the development of metastases and cancer specific mortality.
Short-term oncologic data on LNU are comparable to ONU. Since LNU was selectively performed in favorable-risk patients, we cannot state with certainty that ONU and LNU have the same oncologic efficacy in poor-risk patients. Long-term follow-up data and morbidity data are necessary before LNU can be considered as the standard of care in patients with muscle-invasive or high-grade UTUC.
The HALNU is a less-invasive technique with 5-year bladder recurrence-free survival, cancer-specific survival, and overall survival rates similar to those of ONU for patients with UT-TCC.
HALNU and HARNU have comparable perioperative parameters, convalescence results, and oncologic outcomes for the management of upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma from an intermediate follow-up period.
Advances in laparoscopy and endourology are significantly impacting the definitive management of upper-tract TCC. Patients with a normal contralateral kidney are currently offered laparoscopic nephroureterectomy, while those with an absent or functionally compromised contralateral kidney are generally managed with endoscopic resection. Although minimally invasive techniques have demonstrated advantages regarding postoperative pain, hospital stay, and return to regular activities, only critical long-term follow-up regarding rates of local and distant recurrence will determine the ultimate role of these techniques.
The mode of operation affects the outcome of UUT TCC patients, in addition to factors such as tumor grade, stage and size.
In patients with upper tract transitional cell carcinoma who are candidates for radical nephroureterectomy the retroperitoneal laparoscopic approach satisfactorily duplicates established technical principles of traditional open oncological surgery, while significantly decreasing morbidity from this major procedure. Short-term oncological and survival data of the laparoscopic technique are comparable to open surgery. Although long-term followup data are not yet available, it appears that laparoscopic radical nephroureterectomy may supplant open surgery as the standard of care in patients with muscle invasive or high grade upper tract transitional cell carcinoma.
Our retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephroureterectomy is less invasive than open surgery and is a safe and effective alternative.
Hand assisted retroperitoneoscopic nephroureterectomy is an effective and safe alternative to open nephroureterectomy for upper urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma.
Compared with standard laparoscopy hand assisted laparoscopy decreases operative time without significantly altering short-term parameters of convalescence. However, long-term convalescence after hand assisted laparoscopic radical nephroureterectomy is 1 to 3 weeks longer (p = 0.27). Longer followup in the hand assisted cohort is necessary to determine whether there are any differences in the 2 methods in regard to cancer control.
Tumor grade appeared to be the most important prognostic indicator in patients with renal TCC regardless of the surgical approach. Grade 3 tumors were more aggressive, presenting in an advanced stage with invasion, and recurrences were usually associated with metastasis. In this population, nephroureterectomy is warranted if the patient is a surgical candidate. The percutaneous option for grade 1 or 2 disease may be extended beyond the population with solitary kidneys and a risk of chronic renal failure to be offered to healthy individuals with normal contralateral kidneys who are willing to abide by a strict and lengthy follow-up.
In the surgical management of upper tract transitional cell carcinoma, LNU does not negatively affect long-term oncologic control and can be considered an alternative modality. Tumor stage and grade are, however, important prognostic factors in the incidence of metastases and cancer-specific mortality.
RTN can make total nephroureterectomy less invasive. From an oncologic standpoint, although it revealed a disease-free survival rate comparable with the standard open procedure with limited follow-up, further follow-up of additional cases with simultaneous extended lymphadenectomy is necessary to evaluate the effectiveness of this procedure.
Laparoscopic stapling of the bladder cuff has oncologic efficacy and outcomes similar to those of the open transvesical approach. However, the laparoscopic procedure may carry a higher risk of recurrence and a shorter recurrence-free interval than the open transvesical approach.
Although this is a retrospective survey of two asynchronous groups, given the similar nature of the UUTT cases in both groups and the fact that no statistically significant differences have been found, it is reasonable to conclude that nephroureterectomy with prior endoscopic detachment of the ureter is a safe and radical procedure.
Hand-assisted laparoscopic nephroureterectomy with endoscopic management of the bladder cuff is an efficacious alternative to open surgery. The operative time, specimen weight and size, and risk of recurrence for the two procedures are similar. However, convalescence, as measured by pain medication requirements and length of stay, is significantly better with laparoscopy. Longer follow-up with larger numbers of patients is in progress.
Endoscopic ureteral detachment reduces operative duration and is associated with equivalent oncological outcomes compared with open bladder cuff excision in nephroureterectomy. Caution should be exercised in patients with low ureteral tumors.
Percutaneous surgery has proved safe and effective in treating superficial grade II upper tract transitional cell carcinoma. Offering an endoscopic approach electively to healthy individuals with a normal contralateral kidney seems viable.
Instillation of mitomycin C for upper tract transitional cell carcinoma appears to be safe and can be considered for adjuvant treatment in select cases. More data are necessary to determine its efficacy.
The UCLA Prostate Cancer Index performed well in this population of older men with and without prostate cancer. It demonstrated good psychometric properties and appeared to be well understood and easily completed. The high response among patients suggests that these men especially are interested in addressing both the general and disease-specific concerns that impact their daily quality of life.
Given that ureteroscopic evaluation is essential for surveillance after endoscopic treatment of upper urinary tract TCC because of residual concern about recurrence, patients treated endoscopically should be recommended to undergo long-term endoscopic follow up.
The long-term overall and disease-specific survival rates after laparoscopic RNU for upper tract TCC are well within the range of results reported after open surgery. Thus, the results of the present study support the continued development of laparoscopic techniques in the management of this aggressive disease.
Nephron sparing approaches in well-selected patients with low stage and low-grade disease can be treated endoscopically with ureteroscopy and percutaneous renal surgery. Laparoscopic nephroureterectomy offers a safe, minimally invasive alternative to traditional open surgical techniques for patients with TCC of the upper urinary tract.
High-dose therapy combined with transplantation improves the response rate, eventfree survival, and overall survival in patients with myeloma.
Therapeutic innovations tested through RCTs have improved the outcomes of patients with multiple myeloma. However, the quality of RCT reporting and methodology in multiple myeloma could be substantially improved. Most therapeutic strategies in multiple myeloma are based on modest quality, low power evidence. Despite these shortcomings our findings suggest patients may often clinically benefit from enrollment in clinical trials when available. Patients on average received modest benefit from innovative therapies tested in RCTs at little additional risk of side effects.
There has been substantial advancement in our understanding of the biology of multiple myeloma and related plasma cell neoplasms over the past two decades. We can reasonably hope that improvements in treatment will ensue.
The reported technique seems to be a safe modification of restoration after pancreaticoduodenectomy, with maintenance of anatomical gastrointestinal continuity, avoidance of complications from anastomosis with the pancreatic remnant, as well as maintenance of endocrine pancreatic function. However, long-term follow-up and larger comparative studies are needed to evaluate the impact of this modification on morbidity and mortality, including long-term nutritional complications.
In conclusion, complete pancreaticojejunostomy using duct-to-mucosa anastomosis for a normal soft pancreas does not require a stenting tube. This nonstented method can be considered one of the basic procedures for pancreaticojejunostomy because of its safety and certainty.
The results were considered to show equivalent outcomes for ex situ and in situ pancreatic stenting of the duct-to-mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy after pancreaticoduodenectomy. The use of transanastomotic stents has to be selective according to the individual characteristics of each patient. We recommend their use with ampullary tumors or small ducts (< or =2 mm).
The present definition and clinical grading of POPF should allow realistic comparisons of surgical experiences in the future when new techniques, new operations, or new pharmacologic agents that may impact surgical treatment of pancreatic disorders are addressed.
The overall death rate after pancreaticoduodenectomy did not decrease significantly during the period, and it was greater in low-volume hospitals and older patients. The lower death and complication rates in high-volume hospitals, including the single-center outcomes, were similar to those reported in other countries and may be due to better prevention and management of complications. Pancreaticoduodenectomy should be performed in centers with sufficient experience and resources for support.
This method is safe, because even if leakage does occur the intestinal fluid contains no pancreatic juice.
Both PD and PPPD had similar peri-operative adverse events, however, in overall analysis PPPD has lower mortality and improved long-term patient survival, although this was not reflected in the sub-group analysis.
The incidence of overall postoperative complications, grade B/C PF, and delayed gastric emptying after PD has been reduced because of the introduction of a new guideline.
Pancreaticoduodenectomy continues to be associated with considerable morbidity. With careful patient selection, PD can be performed safely. Long-term survival in patients with periampullary adenocarcinoma can be predicted by preoperative laboratory values, intraoperative factors, and pathologic findings.
All OCSs reported superiority of PG over PJ, most likely influenced by publication bias. In contrast, all RCTs failed to show advantage of a particular technique, suggesting that both PJ and PG provide equally good results. This meta-analysis yet again highlights the singular importance of performing well-designed RCTs and the role of evidence-based medicine in guiding modern surgical practice.
This single institution, high-volume experience indicates that pancreaticoduodenectomy can be performed safely for a variety of malignant and benign disorders of the pancreas and periampullary region. Overall survival is determined largely by the pathology within the resection specimen.
The use of somatostatin and its analogues does not significantly reduce postoperative complications after pan-creaticoduodenectomy.
Evaluation of research depends on complete and accurate reporting. If medical journals adopt the STARD checklist and flow diagram, the quality of reporting of studies of diagnostic accuracy should improve to the advantage of clinicians, researchers, reviewers, journals, and the public.
Cervical-cancer screening strategies incorporating visual inspection of the cervix with acetic acid or DNA testing for HPV in one or two clinical visits are cost-effective alternatives to conventional three-visit cytology-based screening programs in resource-poor settings.
We defined the characteristics predicting response and EFS to rituximab. Prolonged treatment results in longer EFS at the cost of a longer reduction in B cell and IgM levels, but without additional clinical toxicity.
Molecular response assessed in pb using a PCR technique is, along with beta 2M, the most important factor to predict FFS in FL.
In acute deep-vein thrombosis, reviparin regimens are more effective than unfractionated heparin in reducing the size of the thrombus. Reviparin is also more effective than unfractionated heparin for the prevention of recurrent thromboembolism and equally safe.
Fixed-dose, subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin is as effective and safe as adjusted-dose, intravenous unfractionated heparin for the initial management of venous thromboembolism, regardless of whether the patient has pulmonary embolism or a history of venous thromboembolism.
Subcutaneous UFH with dose adjusted by activated partial thromboplastin time by means of a weight-based algorithm is as effective and safe as fixed-dose nadroparin for the initial treatment of patients with VTE, including those with pulmonary embolism and recurrent VTE.
Low-molecular-weight heparin is at least as effective and as safe as classic intravenous heparin therapy under the conditions of this study and more convenient to administer. The simplified therapy provided by low-molecular-weight heparin may allow patients with uncomplicated proximal deep-vein thrombosis to be cared for in an outpatient setting.
In patients with proximal-vein thrombosis, treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin at home is feasible, effective, and safe.
Low-molecular-weight heparin can be used safely and effectively to treat patients with proximal deep-vein thrombosis at home.
Subcutaneous enoxaparin once or twice daily is as effective and safe as dose-adjusted, continuously infused unfractionated heparin in the prevention of recurrent symptomatic venous thromboembolic disease.
Enoxaparin is at least as effective and safe as UFH under the conditions of this study. Moreover, it is more comfortable for patients and less time-consuming for nurses and laboratories. Thus, our study confirmed, with the use of enoxaparin, other observations that low-molecular-weight heparin provides a real therapeutic advance in the treatment of deep vein thrombosis.
Under the conditions of this study, initial subcutaneous therapy with the low-molecular-weight heparin tinzaparin appeared to be as effective and safe as intravenous unfractionated heparin in patients with acute pulmonary embolism.
Once-daily subcutaneous fondaparinux was at least as effective (not inferior) and safe as twice-daily, body weight-adjusted enoxaparin in the initial treatment of patients with symptomatic deep venous thrombosis.
Once-daily, subcutaneous administration of fondaparinux without monitoring is at least as effective and is as safe as adjusted-dose, intravenous administration of unfractionated heparin in the initial treatment of hemodynamically stable patients with pulmonary embolism.
Tinzaparin and dalteparin are safe and effective for the outpatient treatment of DVT or PE. Our finding of no differences between the LMWHs based on major clinical end points means that practical issues can be the deciding factor on which drug to use.
Low-molecular-weight heparins are at least as effective as UFH in preventing recurrent VTE. It is unlikely that LMWHs are superior in the treatment of VTE, but they do show a statistically significant decrease in total mortality. No differences were seen in the development of recurrent VTE dependent on treatment setting. There were no apparent differences between once-daily and twice-daily therapy or among products. Inpatient therapy may be associated with less major bleeding; therefore, if LMWHs are given in the outpatient setting, patients should be rigorously monitored.
During the initial 3 months of anticoagulant therapy, recurrent VTE is more likely to occur in patients with cancer, chronic cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, or other clinically significant medical disease. Patients with PE are as likely to develop recurrent VTE as those with DVT; however, recurrence is more likely to be fatal in patients who initially present with PE. Arch Intern Med. 2000;160:3431-3436.
Low-molecular-weight heparin treatment reduces mortality rates after acute deep venous thrombosis. These drugs seem to be as safe as unfractionated heparin with respect to major bleeding complications and appear to be as effective in preventing thromboembolic recurrences.
Low-molecular-weight heparin administered once daily subcutaneously was no less effective and probably more effective than use of dose-adjusted intravenous unfractionated heparin for preventing recurrent venous thromboembolism in patients with PE and associated proximal deep vein thrombosis. Our findings extend the use of low-molecular-weight heparin without anticoagulant monitoring to patients with submassive PE.
Low molecular weight heparins seem to have a higher benefit to risk ratio than unfractionated heparin in the treatment of venous thrombosis. These results, however, remain to be confirmed by using clinical outcomes in suitably powered clinical trials.
Fixed-dose subcutaneous dalteparin given once daily from the start of treatment is of equivalent efficacy and safety to conventional UFH therapy in the routine management of DVT.
Deep vein thrombosis is a condition associated with common complications, both in the acute period and in the long-term. Nevertheless, it can be treated safely and efficiently by a HCU. This disease is associated with a high risk of mortality, particularly because it is usually associated with severe diseases.
Patients with pulmonary embolism after surgery for lung cancer can be treated aggressively with anticoagulants with/without fibrinolitics or even with pulmonary embolectomy on cardiopulmonary bypass, without excessive risk of bleeding complications. Enhanced spiral CT scanning was very helpful for making a simultaneous diagnosis of APE and DVT. The use of argatroban in conjunction with activated clotting time monitoring should be effective without causing bleeding problems during the early stages after pulmonary resection for lung cancer.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, associated thrombotic events, and heparin-dependent IgG antibodies are more common in patients treated with unfractionated heparin than in those treated with low-molecular-weight heparin.
For patients with acute proximal deep vein thrombosis, treatment at home with low-molecular-weight heparin is less costly than hospital-based treatment with standard heparin. The economic evidence in favor of outpatient treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin exhibits dominance; a situation of reduced cost is created with no compromise in clinical outcomes or patients' quality of life.
Fixed-dose low-molecular-weight heparin treatment appears to be as effective and safe as dose-adjusted intravenous unfractionated heparin for the initial treatment of nonmassive pulmonary embolism.
LMWH are likely to be more effective than UFH in preventing recurrent venous thromboembolism, to produce less major bleeding, and to be associated with a lower mortality rate, particularly in the subgroup of patients with cancer.
Cancer diagnosed at the same time as or within one year after an episode of venous thromboembolism is associated with an advanced stage of cancer and a poor prognosis.
It is essential that the median length of follow-up be clearly stated in any clinical trial. When the results obtained with a particularly promising new drug or procedure are presented early in the course of study (within 1-2 years), the investigators should strongly consider a repeat evaluation after an additional 3-5 years of follow-up.
Despite the fact that most of these patients received shorter consolidation treatments than do younger patients, the good results achieved in them might be considered an indication for modifying treatment schedules in order to reduce severe toxicity and improve protocol compliance.
In patients with AML who are older than 60 years of age, escalation of the dose of daunorubicin to twice the conventional dose, with the entire dose administered in the first induction cycle, effects a more rapid response and a higher response rate than does the conventional dose, without additional toxic effects. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN77039377; and Netherlands National Trial Register number, NTR212.)
OXN PR provides superior bowel function in cancer pain patients, compared with OxyPR, without compromising analgesic efficacy or safety. This study confirms that OXN PR is well tolerated and efficacious in cancer pain patients and results are in line with those seen in non-malignant pain patients.
Adult patients with cancer who were taking oxycodone CR were readily converted to oxymorphone ER and required half the milligram dose to stabilize their pain. Within 72 h, most patients achieved a stable dose that provided adequate relief with similar opioid adverse events.
Controlled-release oxycodone demonstrated excellent pharmacodynamic characteristics, analgesic efficacy, and safety as compared with controlled-release hydromorphone and represents an important new therapeutic option for cancer pain management.
This is the first study that directly compared two 12-hour SRM formulations. The data suggested, by multiple clinically important measures, that SR2 may provide superior analgesic efficacy and less toxicity compared to SR1. It also supports the concept that it cannot be assumed that different SR formulations of a given opioid are clinically equivalent. A larger study is needed to confirm our findings.
Transdermal fentanyl combined with R/T was more effective in reducing metastatic bone pain and resulted in greater improvements in quality of life than paracetamol and codeine.
There was no superior analgesic efficacy with the administration of hydrocodone/acetaminophen when compared to patients receiving tramadol in the relief of cancer pain. Tramadol produced more mild side effects than hydrocodone.
In certain cancer patients with strong pain, tramadol achieved good pain control with fewer side-effects than morphine. The non-opioid mode of action may result in a different spectrum of analgesia and side-effects. Longterm studies are required to confirm this study of brief duration.
These results suggest that TDF and MSt are safe and effective analgesics for the management of chronic cancer pain. However, TDF provides a simpler and more convenient treatment for those patients with severe nausea, vomiting or dysphagia.
The quality and quantity of safety reporting vary across medical areas, study designs, and settings but they are largely inadequate. Current standards for safety reporting in randomized trials should be revised to address this inadequacy.
Consistent and plausible findings from disparate populations and designs make endoscopic ulcers a strong candidate for surrogacy, though direct progression from endoscopic ulcers to ulcer complications cannot be demonstrated. Large outcome studies are needed to establish the power of the surrogacy, absolute risk of clinical outcomes, and to identify the totality of risks and benefits of new pharmacologic therapies.
Small study effects can often distort results of meta-analyses. The influence of small trials on estimated treatment effects should be routinely assessed.
Intracervical injection of prilocaine and felypressin reduces the intensity of pain experienced in women undergoing cervical biopsy and treatment with the Semm coagulator. Its use is commendable but is not absolutely necessary in all cases.
These results suggest that cancer occurrence among children within specific histologies increased modestly in the U.S. between 1974 and 1991, and that the increases were most apparent among young children.
This study has established an effective method of activity prescription that predicts subsequent toxicity, with the maximally tolerated dose being sufficient activity to deliver a whole-body-absorbed radiation dose of 2.5 Gy. The objective response rate is comparable to other single agents in chemoresistant neuroblastoma and suggests that 131I mIBG may be a useful method for targeting radiotherapy in metastatic neuroblastoma.
Treatment with myeloablative therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation improved event-free survival among children with high-risk neuroblastoma. In addition, treatment with 13-cis-retinoic acid was beneficial for patients without progressive disease when it was administered after chemotherapy or transplantation.
Neuroblastomas with N-myc amplification have a characteristic histopathologic phenotype and an aggressive clinical course. In contrast, neuroblastomas without N-myc amplification exhibit a wide range of histologic features that can define prognostic subsets.
The International Neuroblastoma Pathology Classification, a system based on a framework of the Shimada classification with minor modifications, is proposed for international use in assessing NTs.
The initial mIBG scan is of prognostic significance to predict response to chemotherapy for metastatic neuroblastoma in children older than 1 year of age. A prospective study comparing this initial mIBG score with other recently established prognostic factors is warranted.
Patients cannot tolerate large volumes of oral elemental diet. The quantities consumed in this study produced no therapeutic benefit. Future studies should aim to replace a higher proportion of nutritional intake for a longer duration of radiotherapy treatment.
At least 1 year after pelvic radiotherapy, gastrointestinal symptoms which have an adverse effect on the quality of life may be more common than generally reported. Patients found that advice from doctors and alternative practitioners was equally valuable. Dietary manipulation was generally unhelpful for gastrointestinal symptoms after pelvic radiotherapy, although the role of eliminating raw vegetables may benefit from further evaluation.
In view of the consistency and extent of the survival benefit for CRT the additional acute toxicity appears to be acceptable. The lack of data on long-term toxicity needs to be addressed.
Adjuvant radiotherapy leads to excellent pelvic control, with few serious complications. Major acute toxicity shows significant correlation with the incidence of severe late injury, which we suggest to classify in part as consequential late effects.
This short training programme demonstrated a positive effect on aspects of doctor behaviour. Video-conferencing after a short training course may be an effective strategy for delivering CST.
The study has shown that whilst training enhances skills, without intervention, it may have little effect on clinical practice. The potential role of clinical supervision as one way of enhancing the clinical effectiveness of communication skills training programmes has been demonstrated. PRACTISE IMPLICATIONS: This study raises questions about the effectiveness of training programmes which do not incorporate a transfer element, and provides evidence to support the need for clinical supervision for clinical nurse specialist.
Six 3-hour consolidation workshops resulted in improved communication skills addressed to patients and to relatives. The current results showed that the transfer of skills addressing relatives' concerns remained limited and that consolidation workshops should focus even more systematically on the practice of three-person interviews.
Contrary to what was expected, no change was observed in physicians' ability to detect distress in patients with cancer after a communication skills training programs, regardless of whether physicians attended the basic training program or the basic training program followed by the consolidation workshops. The results indicated a need for further improvements in physicians' detection skills through specific training modules, including theoretical information about factors that interfere with physicians' detection and through role-playing exercises that focus on assessment and supportive skills that facilitate detection.
The continuing medical education intervention was effective in terms of some but not all physician and patient outcomes.
HRQOL discussions between oncologists and patients are common, but the emphasis is often on treatment (e.g. side effects) and symptoms (e.g. pain) even in patients with advanced disease. Given the often intense emotional experience of patients with advanced cancer, oncologists may need to pay more attention to psychological, social, and spiritual HRQOL concerns.
Findings suggest the tailored interactive CD-ROM has promise for use and acceptance among oncologists.
Communication skills workshops may be a useful modality to provide training to oncologists in stressful aspects of the physician-patient relationship. Further research is needed to assess whether long term benefits accrue to the participants.
This is the first study describing clinicians' defensive functioning; results indicate a possible mediating role of defenses in clinician-patient communication.
"Thriving in a Busy Practice: Physician-Patient Communication," a typical continuing medical education program geared toward developing clinicians' communication skills, is not effective in improving general patient satisfaction. To improve global visit satisfaction, communication skills training programs may need to be longer and more intensive, teach a broader range of skills, and provide ongoing performance feedback.
This short training programme demonstrated limited success in improving the oncologist's communication skills when gaining informed consent. A larger randomized controlled trial of extended training is now underway.
The intervention produced significant communication skills uptake in a group of experienced attending clinicians, mediated by the amount of training. Future research should focus on the dose of training necessary to achieve skills uptake and the effect of skills training on patient outcomes.
Patient communication skills need to be taught as part of residency training. With limited training, case-specific skills (herein, involving patients with cancer) are likely to improve more than general communication skills.
E-mailed FFAC are an educational intervention that increases intern medical knowledge and self-reported preparedness in symptom management skills but not preparedness in communication skills or satisfaction with palliative care education.
The workshops have been successful in increasing the self-perceptions of confidence, competence and willingness to explore the emotional concerns of patients. The model 'SAGE & THYME' has been welcomed by participants.
Nurses found taking part in the study demanding in terms of time and commitment; however, the authors conclude that research in the community palliative care setting is feasible.
Anxiety levels before primary colposcopy are surprisingly high, and are not reduced following individually targeted information given before colposcopy.
A wide variety of defense mechanisms are operant in oncology clinicians facing challenging interviews with simulated patients. Defense mechanisms may be modified by CST.
The CST is feasible for Japanese oncologists, but it needs to be modified to reduce emotional-exhaustion.
CS training for health professionals is useful in oncology practice to improve nurse's ability to recognize the distress of patients diagnosed with cancer.
Support by nurses who completed the CST program was found to reduce psychologic distress and improved coping long term among patients informed of their cancer diagnosis.
The survey identified a number of communication skills which are perceived by surgeons to be important and to require formal training and assessment.
Death education had no effect on the attitudes or behavioral intentions of RNs toward care of dying patients and their families. The educational program did have a significant positive effect on nurses' perceptions of how others might perceive their behavior toward dying patients and their families.
Prior experiences did not adequately prepare interns to deliver competent care. Significant improvements in attitude and knowledge were noted following the intervention. More hands-on clinical experiences in end-of-life care for residents are needed. Occasional didactic sessions will be inadequate.
CAI is a promising method to supply medical specialists with postgraduate training of communication skills. The application of judgement ratings of communication behaviour proved to be valuable to evaluate course effects in real-life patient encounters.
SurvivorCare is a well-received, comprehensive intervention that will now be evaluated in a randomized controlled trial aiming to reduce distress and unmet needs and improve quality of life in CRC survivors.
Interactional skills of experienced physicians can be improved by teaching and training programmes. Therefore, doctor-patient interaction training should be integrated into continuing medical education.
Palliative care education can be enhanced when delivered close to the point of care using multimodal techniques that influence attitudes as well as knowledge.
The results of this study show that there was a significant increase of knowledge of 14%-20% and a significant increase in the perception of confidence in symptom management and communication in the intervention group in comparison with the control group that received traditional methods of education in palliative care or no educational activity at all. The overall satisfaction with the intervention was good-very good for most participants.This on-line educational model seems a useful tool for palliative care training in primary care physicians who have a high opinion about the integration of palliative care within primary care. The results of this study support the suggestion that learning effectiveness should be currently investigated comparing different Internet interventions, instead of Internet vs. no intervention.
Important changes in physicians' communication skills were evident after an 8-hour program. The training improved the process and outcome of care without lengthening the visits.
A program of interdisciplinary interventions can successfully educate and support health care professionals in providing palliative and end-of-life care for children. This program model can be applied in diverse pediatric health care settings.
Intensive, comprehensive psychosocial training was well accepted by residents. It improved their knowledge, self-awareness, self-assessment, and attitudes, the latter improvement persisting well beyond training.
The study demonstrates the efficacy of a theoretically grounded, coaching intervention to help cancer patients talk about pain control.
A short course for residents can significantly improve specific elements of resident EOL conversation performance, including the ability to respond to emotional cues.
The intervention had beneficial effects on coping, stress, and nontechnical skills during simulated surgery.
These results support the EORTC QLQ-C30 as a reliable and valid measure of the quality of life of cancer patients in multicultural clinical research settings. Work is ongoing to examine the performance of the questionnaire among more heterogenous patient samples and in phase II and phase III clinical trials.
Training health professionals by CST is a promising approach to change communication behaviour and attitudes. Patients might also benefit from specifically trained health professionals but strong studies are lacking. However, feasibility and economic aspects have to be kept in mind when considering providing a training of optimal length.
Modest training and minimal practice does not result in complete facilitator competence. Some facilitation skills appear to be more easily acquired than others. These findings highlight which skills should be prioritised in the further training of novice facilitators. A long-term project currently underway will study whether facilitator competence improves with practice and regular feedback.
There is still no evidence that women with early breast cancer who undergo breast conservation surgery have less psychiatric morbidity after treatment than those who undergo mastectomy. Women who surrender autonomy for decision making by agreeing to participate in randomised clinical trials do not experience any different psychological, sexual, or social problems from those women who are treated for breast cancer outside a clinical trial.
Routine physician-patient communication differs in primary care physicians with vs without prior malpractice claims. In contrast, the study did not find communication behaviors to distinguish between claims vs no-claims surgeons. The study identifies specific and teachable communication behaviors associated with fewer malpractice claims for primary care physicians. Physicians can use these findings as they seek to improve communication and decrease malpractice risk. Malpractice insurers can use this information to guide malpractice risk prevention and education for primary care physicians but should not assume that it is appropriate to teach similar behaviors to other specialty groups.
The percentage of complaints related to communication with the doctor is high, though lower than cited in other studies. The most common complaint is the dysfunctional delivery of information.
Provision of information needed for decision-making appears to be valued largely within the context of a caring physician-patient relationship. Specific surgeons' behaviors believed to facilitate patient adjustment include expressing empathy, allowing sufficient time for patients to absorb the cancer diagnosis, providing information, and engaging the patient in treatment decision-making.
This statewide study shows that cancer patients experience high levels of unmet needs across the range of domains examined. The study provides information that may be valuable in identifying areas where interventions could be tested and evaluated in an attempt to address the unmet needs of people living with cancer.
Most of the studies reviewed demonstrated a correlation between effective physician-patient communication and improved patient health outcomes. The components of effective communication identified by these studies can be used as the basis both for curriculum development in medical education and for patient education programs. Future research should focus on evaluating such educational programs.
These findings provide preliminary evidence of the reliability and validity of the QUOTE(chemo) for use in cancer care surrounding chemotherapy treatment. Researchers and health care providers can use the instrument to measure patients' needs and experiences with communication to identify aspects that need improvement.
Complete transurethral bladder tumor resection is recommended for all patients with nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer. For low risk disease a single, immediate chemotherapeutic instillation after transurethral bladder tumor resection is recommended. For intermediate or high risk disease there is no significant benefit from an immediate, postoperative chemotherapeutic instillation. For intermediate risk disease intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guérin with maintenance or intravesical chemotherapy is recommended. For high risk disease bacillus Calmette-Guérin induction plus maintenance is recommended. The appropriate management of recurrence depends on the patient level of risk as well as previous treatment, while the management of treatment failure depends on the type of failure as well as the level of risk for recurrence and disease progression.
The results suggest superiority of BCG over mitomycin C for prevention of tumor recurrences in the combined data and particularly in the BCG maintenance treatment subgroup, irrespective of the actual (intermediate or high) tumor risk status. The toxicity with BCG is higher but does not differ between BCG maintenance and nonmaintenance groups.
Intravesical electromotive administration increases bladder uptake of MMC, resulting in an improved response rate in cases of high risk superficial bladder cancer.
Compared to standard induction therapy maintenance BCG immunotherapy was beneficial in patients with carcinoma in situ and select patients with Ta, T1 bladder cancer. Median recurrence-free survival time was twice as long in the 3-week maintenance arm compared to the no maintenance arm, and patients had significantly longer worsening-free survival.
ICLMH significantly increases the DFI of NMIBC patients with high EORTC score for recurrence and progression. Toxicity of the intensive treatment schedule was generally mild.
The scale developed in this study to monitor the adverse reactions to bacille Calmette-Guérin and their impact on the adherence to maintenance therapy may be helpful for tailoring maintenance regimens or implementing protective measures (dose reduction or treatment postponement).
Intravesical BCG significantly reduces the risk of progression after transurethral resection in patients with superficial bladder cancer who receive maintenance treatment. Thus, it is the agent of choice for patients with intermediate and high risk papillary tumors and those with carcinoma in situ.
One immediate intravesical instillation of chemotherapy significantly decreases the risk of recurrence after TUR in patients with stage Ta T1 single and multiple bladder cancer. It is the treatment of choice in patients with a single, low risk papillary tumor and is recommended as the initial treatment after TUR in patients with higher risk tumors.
With these probabilities, the urologist can discuss the different options with the patient to determine the most appropriate treatment and frequency of follow-up.
Many apparently conclusive Cochrane neonatal meta-analyses may become inconclusive when the statistical analyses take into account the risk of random error due to repetitive testing.
Inadequate generation of the allocation sequence, allocation concealment, and double blinding lead to exaggerated estimates of intervention benefit and may contribute to discrepancies between the results of large randomized trials and small randomized trials in meta-analyses.
NNT can erroneously inflate differences between treatments when based on absolute and not differential safety. We propose that NNT be limited to acute conditions with short-term, well-defined treatment courses, and that ANNT be used for chronic conditions.
Traditional CHM does not reduce the hematologic toxicity associated with chemotherapy. CHM, however, does have a significant impact on control of nausea.
There was a large variation between reviews in the exhaustiveness of the literature searches. CCTR was the single best source of RCTs. Additional database searching retrieved only a small percentage of extra trials. Contacting authors and manufacturers to find unpublished trials appeared to be a more effective method of obtaining the additional better quality trials.
Evaluating statistical inference with trial sequential monitoring boundaries when meta-analyses fall short of a required IS may reduce the risk of false positive results and important inaccurate effect estimates.
Some countries publish unusually high proportions of positive results. Publication bias is a possible explanation. Researchers undertaking systematic reviews should consider carefully how to manage data from these countries.
The average bias associated with defects in the conduct of randomised trials varies with the type of outcome. Systematic reviewers should routinely assess the risk of bias in the results of trials, and should report meta-analyses restricted to trials at low risk of bias either as the primary analysis or in conjunction with less restrictive analyses.
The least expensive management for metastatic colorectal was 5-FU infusion but the additional cost of irinotecan was balanced by the added months of survival, with a cost-effectiveness ratio close to that of other cancer treatments.
. The present study indicates that, in patients with ACC who have relapsed after 5-FU plus LV, the administration of irinotecan fractionated into two doses every 21 days yields a similar efficacy to, but a much lower incidence of toxicity than, the same total dose of irinotecan administered once every 21 days.
CPT-11 + LFA-5-FU compares favorably in term of activity and toxicity with other combination regimens including CPT-11 and continuous infusional 5-FU. The hypothesis of a RR 15% higher than the MTX + LFA-5-FU treatment can not be ruled out after this interim analysis. The TOM + LFA 5-FU regimen showed a RR and a toxicity profile very close to the MTX + LFA 5-FU combination, and dose not deserve further evaluation in advanced colorectal cancer patients.
IRIFAFU appeared comparable in terms of activity and toxicity with other weekly or biweekly bolus or infusional combination regimens. IRIFAFU, however, seems easier to administer, because it does not require infusional catheter or pump devices, and it is less expensive. It may represent a new option for treating advanced colorectal carcinoma.
High-dose glucocorticoid therapy in ALL children may cause prolonged adrenal suppression and related clinical symptoms. Laboratory monitoring of cortisol levels and steroid coverage during stress episodes may be indicated.
About 50% of children with ALL developed adrenal suppression 2 weeks after a 4-week induction therapy with prednisolone. The suppression could persist through 20 weeks and may hinder an adequate adrenal response during acute febrile illness.
Adrenal insufficiency occurs and may persist for several months in children with ALL after treatment with high doses of prednisolone or dexamethasone.
High-dose glucocorticoid therapy may cause adrenal suppression lasting more than 1 week in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, even after tapering the dose. We suggest steroid replacement during stress episodes within 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation and thereafter testing adrenal function selectively in accordance with symptoms.
GH deficiency is frequently found at long-term follow-up in patients treated for childhood ALL. Other hormonal deficiencies are rare. HSDS at long-term follow-up is dependent on GH secretory status. Long-term endocrinological follow-up examinations in patients treated for childhood ALL are recommended, as hormonal replacement therapy may be indicated.
Although fluconazole is the therapy of choice for patients in the intensive care setting with Candida infections, two patients with multiple organ failure who received high-dose fluconazole appeared to develop adrenal insufficiency. Although preliminary and anecdotal, these data suggest a need to further investigate the possibility that high-dose fluconazole might cause adrenal insufficiency in already compromised critically ill patients.
Substitution of dexamethasone for prednisone or methylprednisolone in an otherwise intensive conventional induction regimen for previously untreated children with ALL resulted in an alarmingly high incidence of septic episodes and toxic deaths. Awareness of this complication, considering that the substitution has no apparent benefit in the efficacy of remission induction, argues against its routine use in intensive induction regimens for children with ALL.
In the current study, the authors determined that children > or = 10 years of age are at increased risk of death during therapy for ALL and AML.
Pituitary-adrenal function in patients treated with synthetic glucocorticoids cannot be reliably estimated from the dose of glucocorticoid, the duration of therapy, or the basal plasma cortisol concentration. In such patients, testing with CRH is nearly as useful as insulin hypoglycemia testing in the assessment of pituitary-adrenal function.
More sensitive and accurate, the low-dose 1-microgram ACTH test is as simple and safe as the standard 250-microgram test. We suggest it should replace it in screening for adrenal insufficiency.
Both fluoxetine and desipramine were effective and well-tolerated in improving depressive symptoms and quality of life in women with advanced cancer. Fluoxetine may offer greater benefit to these patients, as evidenced by greater improvements in fluoxetine-treated patients on several quality of life measures. Our results, while meaningful, should be confirmed in a larger patients sample. However, experience from studies of antidepressant use in patients with advanced cancer has shown that intercurrent disease and treatment variables make it difficult to conduct large studies.
An antidepressant should be considered for early stage breast cancer patients with depressive symptoms who are receiving adjuvant treatment.
The results of this study suggest that slow paroxetine up-titration is better tolerated and at least as effective as the standard paroxetine up-titration in cancer patients with depression.
The results suggest that reduced TRP availability plays a role in IFN-alpha-induced depressive symptoms, and paroxetine, although not altering the KYN or neopterin response to IFN-alpha, attenuates the behavioral consequences of IFN-alpha-mediated TRP depletion.
This study reports data from the first depression prevention trial in HNC and suggests that prophylactic treatment may decrease the incidence of depression during HNC therapy. The clinical significance of the reduction in depression was best demonstrated by the CGI-S scale, which showed a notable difference in global psychiatric and physical well-being.
Brief NT in combination with escitalopram was superior to usual care and escitalopram in improving functioning dimensions of quality life.
Although depression was significantly reduced in the 44 patients receiving paroxetine compared to the 50 patients receiving placebo, indicating that a biologically active dose was used, no significant differences between groups on any of the measures of fatigued were observed. Results suggest that modulation of serotonin may not be a primary mechanism of fatigue related to cancer treatment.
Compared with placebo, sertraline significantly decreased serum level of IL-6. The anti-inflammatory effect of sertraline was independent to its efficacy for depression treatment. Sertraline could be a promising strategy to reduce the systemic inflammation and to treat depression in HD patients.
Depression and anxiety were present in one-third of patients with recently diagnosed NSCLC. Depression and anxiety were associated with decreased HRQL scales, and depression was independently associated with treatment adherence and with poor prognosis.
Amitriptyline is less well tolerated than tricyclics/heterocyclics and SSRIs, but slightly more patients treated on it recover than on alternative antidepressants.
There is evidence showing there is unlikely to be a clinically important advantage for antidepressants over placebo in individuals with minor depression. For benzodiazepines, no evidence is available, and thus it is not possible to determine their potential therapeutic role in this condition.
Our findings suggest that psychological and pharmacologic approaches can be targeted productively toward cancer patients with elevated depressive symptoms. Research is needed to maximize effectiveness, accessibility, and integration into clinical care of interventions for depressed cancer patients.
Safety in overdose should be considered in risk-benefit and cost-benefit considerations of antidepressants. A switch in prescribing, from drugs with a high number of deaths per million prescriptions to drugs with a low number, could reduce the numbers of deaths from overdose. Although this form of suicide prevention can be implemented easily and immediately, its introduction needs to be considered against the higher costs of some of the newer drugs.
The findings suggest that younger, relatively poor caregivers who are providing care to relatives with poor mental and physical functioning may benefit from interventions to help in their spirituality and psychological and physical adjustment, 2 years after the initial cancer diagnosis. In addition, older, relatively poor caregivers may benefit from programs to reduce the physical burden of caregiving. These findings have implications for advancing public health research and practice.
Depression is an independent predictor of poor survival in patients with advanced cancer. It is important that patients with advanced cancer are screened for depression and appropriate interventions offered.
Screening for depression should be routinely conducted in the cancer treatment setting. Referrals to mental health specialists should be considered. Research is needed on whether the treatment of depression could, beyond enhancing quality of life, extend survival of depressed cancer patients.
Paroxetine, fluoxetine and mianserin improve cancer-related depression but may vary in efficacy and tolerability. High-quality, randomized trials of newer antidepressant agents are needed to identify optimal treatments for managing cancer-related depression.
This study found that having no religion, impaired levels of overall functioning, and "multiple psychological morbidities" were associated with suicidality in Korean cancer patients. These findings suggest a need for careful monitoring of these factors and enhanced comprehensive care addressing both the physical and psychosocial functioning of patients with cancer in suicide prevention efforts.
Drug treatment appears to be effective in the short-term management of dysthymic disorder. The choice of drug should take into account specific side-effects profile of each drug.
We cannot determine whether the bias observed resulted from a failure to submit manuscripts on the part of authors and sponsors, from decisions by journal editors and reviewers not to publish, or both. Selective reporting of clinical trial results may have adverse consequences for researchers, study participants, health care professionals, and patients.
There is very limited evidence from clinical trials to guide the treatment of cancer patients with a diagnosis of depression, especially for psychological treatments. High quality trials of treatments for depression in patients with cancer are urgently needed.
Results suggest a lifestyle program focusing on cognitive-behavioral skills training alone is insufficient for promoting routine physical activity in these patients.
The findings of the current study indicated that a computer-assisted, nurse-driven intervention was capable of providing durable improvements in the quality of life of men who underwent treatment for clinically localized prostate carcinoma.
This is one of the first tests of a psychoeducational intervention among men with prostate carcinoma and was the first test that included a sufficient number of African-American men to test by ethnic group. Therefore, replication of these findings is advised.
Men with prostate cancer and their spouses reported positive outcomes from a family intervention that offered them information and support. Programs of care need to be extended to spouses who likely will experience multiple benefits from intervention.
Results support the use of group-based cognitive-behavioral interventions in promoting QoL and BF in this population.
Results suggest that participation in a culturally and linguistically adapted CBSM group intervention improved QoL in Hispanic monolingual men treated for localized PC.
Preoperative behavioral training can hasten the recovery of urine control and decrease the severity of incontinence following radical prostatectomy.
The results of this brief pilot counseling intervention demonstrated significant gains in sexual function and satisfaction and increased utilization of treatments for ED. However, modifications are needed in future randomized trials to reduce the rate of premature termination and to improve long-term maintenance of gains.
Monthly monitoring of older patients' distress with TM and EM along with referral for appropriate help was found to be an efficient means of reducing patients' anxiety and depression compared with patients who received only EM.
In a 3-arm randomized trial investigating the clinical effects of EA on CP/CPPS, EA therapy proved to have independent therapeutic effects, particularly for pain relief superior to SEA or A&E therapy.
The processes and stages identified in this study provide nurses with a framework to assess the readiness of patients to receive information and to assist them in their efforts to regain some control over their disease and their lives.
Male veterans are poorly informed about the potential benefits and risks of prostate cancer screening. Although our mailed educational pamphlet enhanced knowledge only modestly, it was an inexpensive and easily implemented intervention.
Distal pancreatectomy can be performed with a low rate of mortality, though pancreatic leak is a common cause of morbidity. The urgency of the procedure and the method of pancreatic stump closure may influence postoperative morbidity.
The pancreatic fistula rate was 29%. Staplers with or without staple line reinforcement do not significantly reduce fistula rates after DP. Reduction of pancreatic fistulas after DP remains an unsolved challenge.
Pancreatic fistula is the most common complication after DP and its incidence varies depending on the definition applied. Several risk factors for developing a PF were identified. Splenic preservation after DP is safe. The grade of a PF correlates well with clinical outcomes, and most PFs may be managed nonoperatively.
A pancreas thicker than 12 mm significantly increased the incidence of pancreatic fistulas after DP using stapler closure.
Surgery for extrapancreatic disease is an independent risk factor for PF after DP. Of the methods of handling pancreatic remnants, the stapler with suture method by an experienced hepatobiliary surgeon decreased the risk of PF.
The gastric wall-covering method for the management of the pancreatic stump after distal pancreatectomy reduces the incidence of postoperative pancreatic fistula.
This series represents the largest single-institution experience with distal pancreatectomy. These data demonstrate that elective distal pancreatectomy is associated with a mortality rate of <1%. These results demonstrate that, as with pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy can be performed with minimal perioperative mortality and acceptable morbidity.
This largest reported series of DP demonstrates that this procedure can be performed with low mortality but still carries a substantial risk of morbidity, particularly PL. In contrast to some previous studies, this analysis found that surgical management of the pancreatic remnant has no effect on the incidence of clinically significant PL.
Pancreatic fistula following DP is more frequent in cases of pancreatic division at the body level and no elective ligation of the main duct. Routine drainage of the pancreatic stump does not prevent postoperative abdominal collections. Conservative management of PF is successful in 95% of cases.
DP is associated with an intra-abdominal morbidity rate of 20%, which is increased for patients with a body mass index >25 kg/m 2 .
The use of Seamguard is quickly becoming a common adjunct in distal pancreas resections. Our study shows a lower incidence of pancreatic leak after distal pancreatectomy with the use of this staple line-reinforcing product.
Although easily managed in the majority of cases, pancreatic leakage still represents a relevant postoperative complication after pancreatic resection, especially in patients with malignant disease. Because of an increased risk of developing pancreatic leakage, an impaired renal function should be considered specifically in the perioperative management of the patients.
Pancreatic resections can be performed with considerable safety and a low rate of pancreatic complications. More patients die of systemic complications than in the past, which increases the demand for precise preoperative patient selection. Completion pancreatectomy should no longer be considered in patients with a pancreatic fistula.
A group-sequential study design accounts for the uncertainty of pre-existing evidence. Also, standardization of surgical and postoperative care and blinded outcome assessment as well as adjustment for varying surgical expertise will contribute to a high validity and generalizability of the results.
Current indications for pancreatic resection have expanded. These procedures are associated with a low risk for death and postoperative complications when performed in a high-volume setting.
The quality and quantity of information extracted from the available trials are insufficient to enable any firm conclusion to be drawn on the optimal surgical technique of pancreatic stump closure; there is a trend in favour of the stapling technique.
Our data do not support the routine administration of rh-GMCSF with antibiotics for patients with fever and neutropenia. Further studies should be conducted to identify those patients most likely to benefit from rh-GMCSF therapy, such as patients with persistent profound neutropenia and refractory infections.
Adding G-CSF to antibiotic therapy shortens the duration of neutropenia, reduces the duration of antibiotic therapy and hospitalization, and decreases hospital costs in patients with high-risk febrile neutropenia.
The addition of FEC-G to the treatment with antibiotics, in febrile neutropenia, decreases duration of days with fever, hospitalization and neutropenia. However, the frequency of cure is not augmented.
Filgrastim treatment used with antibiotics at the onset of febrile neutropenia in patients with cancer who have received chemotherapy accelerated neutrophil recovery and shortened the duration of febrile neutropenia.
Adding G-CSF or GM-CSF therapy to antibiotic treatment shortens the duration of neutropenia and the duration of hospitalization in patients with neutropenic fever. A statistically nonsignificant trend toward lower cost was observed in the CSF arms as compared with the placebo arm.
These results indicate that rG-CSF is a useful drug for the treatment of neutropenia associated with chemotherapy in urothelial cancer.
The effectiveness of comprehensive home care programmes remains unclear. Given the enormity of the problems faced by society in caring for patients with terminal cancer, further research is urgently needed.
Prophylactic cranial irradiation given to patients with small-cell lung cancer in complete remission decreases the risk of brain metastasis threefold without a significant increase in complications. A possible beneficial effect on overall survival should be tested with a higher statistical power.
Prophylactic cranial irradiation improves both overall survival and disease-free survival among patients with small-cell lung cancer in complete remission.
Dissemination of systemic carcinoma to the brain continues to carry a poor prognosis. Knowledge of the metastatic patterns and limited survival associated with specific tumor types may be useful for guiding future therapeutic intervention.
The CCT combination is useful for the control of delayed and/or anticipatory emesis resulting from CDDP-based chemotherapy for women with gynecological malignancies.
This indicates that the Food and Drug Administration black box warning for low dose droperidol is excessive and unnecessary.
The data show that most patients who receive PLTs have pretransfusion counts of more than 10 x 10(9) per L and more than one-third have pretransfusion counts of greater than 20 x 10(9) per L. The medical literature supports prophylactic PLT transfusion based solely on the count when the PLT number is 10 x 10(9) per L or less. Above this level additional justification is needed although there are different points of view concerning the appropriate triggers. Our data suggest that there is a need for clear hospital transfusion guidelines and ongoing monitoring of PLT use.
Owing to the small number of trials and lack of comparability of PLT products for leukoreduction, we were unable to draw definitive conclusions about the clinical benefits of APCs compared with WBD PLTs. Rigorous RCTs using clinically important end points are needed to settle this issue.
The risk of major bleeding during induction chemotherapy in adolescents and adults with acute myeloid leukemia (except acute promyelocytic leukemia, which we did not study) was similar with platelet-transfusion thresholds of 20,000 per cubic millimeter and 10,000 per cubic millimeter (or 10,000 to 20,000 per cubic millimeter when body temperature exceeded 38 degrees C, there was active bleeding, or invasive procedures were needed). Use of the lower threshold reduced platelet use by 21.5 percent.
The margin of US allogeneic blood supply in excess of allogeneic transfusions in 1997 was 630,000 units, 5.4 percent of total allogeneic supply as compared with margins in prior years ranging between 9.3 and 10.9 percent. Although overall allogeneic available supply in 1994 was adequate to meet transfusion demand, the decrease in the margin between 1994 and 1997 is cause for concern. The rate of whole-blood collections in 1997 per 1000 members of the population aged 18 to 65 years was 12.6 percent lower than 1994. The RBC transfusion rate per 1000 members of the population in 1997 remained nearly the same as in 1994. However, the rates of platelet and of plasma transfusions both increased.
In this trial, the treatment strategy using perioperative chemotherapy and surgery was more effective than surgery alone.
This trial has failed to observe a survival benefit with adjuvant chemotherapy following complete resection of stage I-III NSCLC. However, the hazard ratio and 95% confidence intervals are consistent with the previously reported meta-analysis and two large recently reported trials, which suggest a small survival benefit with cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
PTCLs can be diagnosed reliably by experienced hematopathologists, but immunophenotyping is absolutely necessary. Currently, all types of PTCL should be considered high-grade lymphomas. An increased ability to distinguish T-lymphocyte subsets is needed in order to better subclassify the PTCLs for therapeutic and prognostic purposes.
Degeneration and necrosis with fibrosis are the main pathological phenotypes of the primary lesion after induction chemotherapy, which can be showed by clinical evaluation to chemotherapy efficacy. The preoperative and postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy may be benefical to patients with stage-III NSCLC.
These results provide the best available evidence in support of the use of neoadjuvant platinum-based combination chemotherapy.
Using the 1997 AJCC staging system, the authors observed a better distribution of patient numbers as well as segregation of survival curves among different stage groups. Moreover, prognostic categories with distinct prognosis and failure patterns were definable by the new system, which has important implications in selecting appropriate patient treatment strategies.
Treatment of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer with induction chemotherapy followed by concomitant chemoradiotherapy resulted in excellent overall survival with acceptable toxicity. These results are encouraging and warrant further investigation of intensified approaches.
In patients with advanced larynx and hypopharynx carcinomas, TPF induction chemotherapy was superior to the PF regimen in terms of overall response rate. These results suggest that larynx preservation could be achieved for a higher proportion of patients.
In patients given high-dose chemotherapy, with or without radiation, for the treatment of hematologic cancer, allogeneic peripheral-blood cells used for hematopoietic rescue restore blood counts faster than allogeneic bone marrow, without increasing the risk of graft-versus-host disease.
HLA class I antigen mismatches that are serologically detectable confer an enhanced risk of graft failure after hematopoietic-cell transplantation. Transplants from donors with a single class I allele mismatch that is not serologically detectable may be used without an increased risk of graft failure.
Previous open abdominal operation increased the risk of operative and major complications, which most likely resulted in increased length of stay. The location of the scar impacted the access complication rate. Patients who have undergone previous open surgical procedures should be counseled on the greater risk of complications if the transperitoneal route is elected. Alternatively a retroperitoneal approach may be used.
In cervical cancer, celecoxib treatment decreases tumor COX-2 expression and markers of proliferation and neoangiogenesis, while being uneffective on stroma COX-2 levels, thus suggesting that selective COX-2 inhibitors may be a promising strategy not only for chemopreventive approaches but also for therapeutic approaches in this neoplasia.
In the treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, cold knife conisation and probably both laser conisation and radical diathermy are associated with an increased risk of subsequent perinatal mortality and other serious pregnancy outcomes, unlike laser ablation and cryotherapy. Large loop excision of the transformation zone cannot be considered as completely free of adverse outcomes.
These findings indicate that celecoxib is an effective agent for the prevention of colorectal adenomas but, because of potential cardiovascular events, cannot be routinely recommended for this indication. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00005094 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
COX-2, but not COX-1, gene expression is markedly elevated in most human colorectal cancers compared with accompanying normal mucosa. Furthermore, COX-2 expression seems to be increased in a subset of adenomas. COX-2 may provide an attractive therapeutic target in colorectal neoplasia.
4-HPR at 200 mg/day with a 3-day/month drug holiday is not active compared with placebo in the treatment of HGSIL. Because 4-HPR is active in the laboratory, the lack of effect in our trial may indicate that higher doses are needed in patients to achieve comparable results.
COX-2 overexpression can be used as a potent molecular risk factor in patients with FIGO Stage IIB SCC of the uterine cervix who are treated with radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy.
These results demonstrate that a selective COX-2 inhibitor suppresses PC-3 cell tumor growth in vivo. Tumor growth suppression is achieved by a combination of direct induction of tumor cell apoptosis and down regulation of tumor VEGF with decreased angiogenesis
The increase in COX-2 in cervical cancer precursors may provide a potential target for prevention studies.
It seems that a positive HPV test, even in the presence of normal cytology, may pick up early and accurately a treatment failure. Cytology and colposcopy may still be needed in order to rule out false positive and false negative results.
COX-2-induced PGE2 may contribute to immunosuppression and may directly block antitumor immunity while promoting tumor growth, providing us with the rationale for using COX-2 inhibition combined with immunotherapy.
In surgically treated stage IB cervical cancer patients, COX-2 was significantly expressed when lymph node or parametrial involvement was present. These results suggest that the expression of COX-2 in stage IB cervical cancer may downregulate apoptotic processes and thus enhance tumor invasion and metastasis.
COX-2 is expressed in a high percent of patients with carcinoma in situ and stage T1 transitional cell carcinoma, supporting the rationale for chemoprevention studies with selective COX-2. We could not substantiate a role for COX-2 immunohistochemistry for the staging and prognosis of carcinoma in situ and/or stage T1 transitional cell carcinoma.
COX-2 expression is upregulated in well and moderately differentiated carcinomas of the lung, colon, and breast whereas COX-1 appears to be constitutively expressed at low levels. A possible COX-2 paracrine effect is suggested by moderate immunoreactivity in adjacent nonneoplastic epithelium.
the responsiveness of cervical cancer to neoadjuvant chemotherapy allows surgical treatment in a larger number of patients and results in longer overall and disease-free survival.
Trends in cancer incidence and mortality differ. For most cancers, incidence rates are rising, while mortality rates are generally stable or declining.
Given these observations, we conclude that the coexpression of EGFR and COX-2 immunoreactivity may be used as a potent molecular risk factor for predicting the poor survival of patients with the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage IIB squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix.
LILACS is a source of trials that could improve systematic reviews. A new highly sensitive search strategy for clinical trials in LILACS has been developed. It is hoped this search strategy will improve and increase the utilization of LILACS in future systematic reviews.
A restrictive strategy of red-cell transfusion is at least as effective as and possibly superior to a liberal transfusion strategy in critically ill patients, with the possible exception of patients with acute myocardial infarction and unstable angina.
The current results indicated that >10,000 incident cases of MDS are diagnosed annually in the United States, and the survival of patients with MDS is poor. The availability of descriptive epidemiologic data on MDS can be used now to facilitate much needed research on the etiology and outcomes of MDS.
The incidence of aplastic anemia in Barcelona is low but the case fatality rate is high. Advanced age and severe disease at the time of diagnosis were associated with decreased survival.
In elderly anaemic MDS patients, an increment in haemoglobin is associated with improved QoL, whether induced by growth factor treatment or transfusion therapy.
Robustly designed RCTs prescribing targeted PRT regimens throughout various phases of breast cancer treatment are warranted. RCTs with thorough, standardized reporting of interventions and adverse events are required to establish the efficacy of this intervention for the post-treatment management of breast cancer patients and survivors as a means to improve health status and quality of life.
Physical activity after a breast cancer diagnosis may reduce the risk of death from this disease. The greatest benefit occurred in women who performed the equivalent of walking 3 to 5 hours per week at an average pace, with little evidence of a correlation between increased benefit and greater energy expenditure. Women with breast cancer who follow US physical activity recommendations may improve their survival.
Data suggest that a walking exercise intervention improves sleep in older women receiving hormonal treatment for their breast cancer. Serotonin levels may be a useful biomarker when assessing sleep disturbances in this group.
The new complication classification appears reliable and may represent a compelling tool for quality assessment in surgery in all parts of the world.
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery is the technique of choice for local excision of rectal neoplasms.
T1 colorectal carcinomas with lymphovascular invasion, sm3 depth of invasion, and location in the lower third of the rectum have a high risk of lymph node metastasis. These lesions should have an oncologic resection. In a case of the lesion in the lower third of the rectum, local excision plus adjuvant chemoradiation may be an alternative.
Clinical significance in this pilot study is related to the time required for diet education, content of diet education regarding food restrictions, and difficulty adhering to diet requirements given the multitude of side effects (e.g., nausea, vomiting, mouth sores, diarrhea) of chemotherapy.
The placement in protected areas of patients with hematological malignancies with severe neutropenia or patients with bone marrow transplants appears to be beneficial, but no definitive conclusion could be drawn from the data available.
This study, the first large-scale statistical analysis using a fully parametric model (Weibull), provides evidence that select psychosocial variables can affect BMT survival. Future investigations could explore possible mediating variables, and whether identifying high-risk individuals pretreatment could enhance resource allocation, psychological intervention, and possibly even survival itself.
Strong evidence is available for several nursing interventions to prevent infection in patients with CIN. Many existing practices lack empirical support and should be identified and reviewed in the clinical setting for appropriate patient management.
There is a lack of scientific basis for food restrictions, a wide variation in policies related to low-microbial diets, and inconsistent compliance with restricted diets. Furthermore, lack of consistent practice has not been related to incidence of infection.
Although this trial met the pre-determined criteria for equivalence between the two palliative regimens, significantly more patients achieved complete resolution of symptoms and palliation of chest pain and dyspnoea with the fractionated regimen.
In the present randomized trial, survival and available data on palliation were not different after cf to 60 Gy compared to the palliative PAIR regimen. Therefore, for patients who are not suitable for radical treatment approaches, the prescription of a palliative short-term irradiation appears preferable compared to cf over several weeks.
Interruptions delaying completion of planned radiation therapy were more frequent with higher total doses (> or = 69.6 Gy). Favorable patients (high KPS, little weight loss, < N3 nodal metastasis) had markedly adverse effects on long-term survival associated with delays to completion of the planned total dose.
Laparoscopy was associated with a less pronounced immunosuppression and inflammatory response and a lower consumption of analgesic drugs than open surgery. Moreover, our data did not show any additional detrimental effect of laparoscopy on either operative core temperature or early postoperative respiratory function.
Laparoscopic colorectal surgery resulted in a significant reduction of 30-day postoperative morbidity. Lymphocyte proliferation and gut oxygen tension were better preserved in the laparoscopic group than in the open group.
In this multi-institutional study, the rates of recurrent cancer were similar after laparoscopically assisted colectomy and open colectomy, suggesting that the laparoscopic approach is an acceptable alternative to open surgery for colon cancer.
These results suggest that laparoscopically assisted colon resection for malignant disease can be performed safely, with morbidity, mortality, and en bloc resections comparable with those of open laparotomy. Long-term (5-year) follow-up assessment shows similar outcomes in both groups of patients, demonstrating definite perioperative advantages with LA surgery and no perioperative or long-term disadvantages.
These data suggest that surgical trauma did not significantly affect the immune status of patients with respect to the measured parameters in terms of either the approach or the extent of bowel resection.
Both laparoscopic-assisted resection and open surgery affect the immune response. It would appear that laparoscopic-assisted resection does not have an immunologic advantage over open surgery in patients with colorectal cancer.
Our study demonstrated that IL-6 and granulocyte elastase may be appropriated particularly to monitor surgical stress. By using these parameters, we found a significant reduction in surgical trauma after laparoscopic surgery, was compared with the open procedure. This supports the clinical findings of a clear benefit for patients undergoing laparoscopic colonic surgery.
Tissue trauma, as reflected by systemic cytokine response, was less after laparoscopic resection than after open resection of rectosigmoid carcinoma. The difference in the systemic cytokine response may have implications on the long-term survival.
Within this prospective, randomized trial, laparoscopic techniques were as safe as conventional surgical techniques and offered a faster recovery of pulmonary and gastrointestinal function compared with conventional surgery for selected patients undergoing large bowel resection for cancer or polyps. There were no apparent shortterm oncologic disadvantages. Longer followup is needed to fully assess oncologic outcomes.
Within a single institution, single surgical team, prospective, randomized trial, laparoscopic techniques offered a faster recovery of pulmonary function, fewer complications, and shorter length of stay compared with conventional surgery for selected patients undergoing ileocolic resection for Crohn's disease.
The extraction site for LCR is associated with a high incidence of complications, comparable to open colectomy. Strategies to alter operative technique should be considered to reduce the incidence of these complications.
The systemic proinflammatory concentrations after both surgical approaches represent only a small fragment of what is generated in the peritoneal drain fluid. Even if the immediate levels of proinflammatory cytokines in the serum are significantly lower in the laparoscopic group, the same cytokines locally produced showed no differences, which suggests that the two intra-abdominal approaches are equally traumatic. No differences in cellular response were observed between the groups.
Nonrestoration of pneumoperitoneum after laparoscopic-assisted sigmoid resection allows a decrease in operating room time and a similar outcome.
The results obtained in this randomized, prospective study suggest that acute phase systemic response is attenuated in patients undergoing laparoscopic-assisted colectomy in comparison with patients receiving open colectomy.
The potential benefits of using a laparoscopic approach to colon resection are not clearly confirmed by these data. While such an approach may possibly result in shorter hospitalization, it appears to offer at best only modest increases in the rapidity of recovery of gastrointestinal function.
The laparoscopic approach has a recurrence rate similar to that for open procedures for colon cancer. However, additional follow-up of these patients is needed before we can determine whether or not the laparoscopic approach influences overall survival.
This study confirms that analgetic requirements are lower and pain is less intense after laparoscopic than after conventional colorectal resection. Patients also experience less fatigue after minimal invasive surgery. Because of these differences, the duration of recovery is shortened, and the postoperative quality of life is improved after laparoscopic colorectal resections.
Pulmonary function is better preserved after laparoscopic than after conventional colorectal resection. Pulmonary complications may be reduced after laparoscopic resections because of the better postoperative pulmonary function.
Although laparoscopic surgery appears of value in colorectal malignancy, results of randomized trials have to be awaited to determine the definitive place of laparoscopy in colorectal cancer. Considering the current accrual rate, the COLOR study will be completed in 2002.
Understanding perioperative pathophysiology and implementation of care regimes to reduce the stress of an operation, will continue to accelerate rehabilitation associated with decreased hospitalization and increased satisfaction and safety after discharge. Developments and improvements of multimodal interventions within the context of "fast track" surgery programs represents the major challenge for the medical professionals working to achieve a "pain and risk free" perioperative course.
The continuing declines in overall cancer incidence and death rates are encouraging. However, a few of the top ten incidence or mortality cancer sites continued to increase or remained level. For many cancer sites, whites had lower incidence and mortality rates than blacks but higher rates than Hispanics, Asian and Pacific Islanders, and American Indians/Alaska Natives. The variations in colorectal cancer incidence and death rates by race/ethnicity, gender, age, and geographic area may be related to differences in risk factors, demographic characteristics, screening, and medical practice. New efforts currently are underway to increase awareness of screening benefits and treatment for colorectal cancer.
Interstitial hyperthermia, as applied in this randomized study, did not show any additional beneficial effects over interstitial radiotherapy alone. Delivery of hyperthermia remains a major obstacle (since only one patient met the basic minimum adequacy criteria as defined in this study). The benefit of hyperthermia in addition to radiation therapy still remains to be proven in properly randomized prospective clinical trials after substantial technical improvements in heat delivery and dosimetry are achieved.
Stage 0 rectal cancer disease is associated with excellent long-term results irrespective of treatment strategy. Surgical resection may not lead to improved outcome in this situation and may be associated with high rates of temporary or definitive stoma construction and unnecessary morbidity and mortality rates.
Short-term preoperative radiotherapy reduces the risk of local recurrence in patients with rectal cancer who undergo a standardized total mesorectal excision.
The combination of postoperative local therapy with radiation plus fluorouracil and systemic therapy with a fluorouracil-based regimen significantly and substantively improves the results of therapy for rectal carcinoma with a poor prognosis, as compared with postoperative radiation alone.
QoL and the anorectal and sexual functioning did not differ in patients receiving short-course radiotherapy, as compared to those receiving chemoradiation.
Preoperative chemoradiotherapy, as compared with postoperative chemoradiotherapy, improved local control and was associated with reduced toxicity but did not improve overall survival.
Total mesorectal excision does not influence anal sphincter function during long-term follow-up. Neoadjuvant chemoradiation results in disordered anal sphincter function in patients with midrectal cancer. Low and rectoanal anastomosis seems to obtain better anal sphincter function than higher anastomosis in chemoradiated patients.
The study indicates that high-dose radiotherapy influences long-term bowel function, thus emphasizing the need for finding predictive factors for local recurrence to exclude patients with a very high probability for cure with surgery alone and to use optimized radiation techniques.
Preoperative therapy with radiotherapy and UFT-6SLV downstaged 63% of tumors and allowed a sphincter-preserving procedure in some patients. Toxicity was moderate. This scheme is convenient because of the oral administration of chemotherapy.
Rectal cancer can be cured by surgical therapy alone in 2 of 3 patients undergoing surgical excision in all stages and in 4 of 5 patients having curative resections. In future clinical trials of adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy, strategies should incorporate total mesorectal excision as the surgical procedure of choice.
Although high dose, short term, preoperative radiotherapy can improve outcome after surgery for rectal carcinoma, there also may be an increased risk for long term morbidity. Refinement of the radiotherapy technique and a more accurate selection of patients suitable for the treatment will probably further improve the results, at least in regard to treatment-related complications.
Since adequate doses of 5-FU to treat systemic disease could not be delivered until at least 3 months (cycle 3) following the start of therapy, we do not recommend that this 5-FU, low dose LV, and sequential radiation therapy regimen be used as presently designed. However, given the 91% resectability rate we remain encouraged with this approach.
With increasing follow-up, there is a persisting overall effect of preoperative short-term radiotherapy on local control in patients with clinically resectable rectal cancer. However, there is no effect on overall survival. Since survival is mainly determined by distant metastases, efforts should be directed towards preventing systemic disease.
Low doses of arsenic trioxide can induce complete remissions in patients with APL who have relapsed. The clinical response is associated with incomplete cytodifferentiation and the induction of apoptosis with caspase activation in leukemic cells.
This systematic review of RCTs on HCC, mostly in non resectable patients, indicate that the non-surgical current treatments are ineffective or minimally and uncertainly effective. The three treatment modalities minimally and uncertainly effective (i.e., embolization, tamoxifen and IFN) can deserve further assessment by larger and methodologically more sound randomized trials.
Alpha-interferon is effective in terminating viral replication and in eradicating the carrier state in patients with chronic HBV infection who are HBeAg positive when these patients are treated for 3 to 6 months and followed for 6 to 12 months after cessation of therapy. Follow-up studies are required to determine whether interferon reduces the risk for developing cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma.
Anterior resection and nonstoma patients, despite suffering micturition and defecation problems, had better quality of life scores than abdominoperineal extirpation and stoma patients. Comparisons between abdominoperineal extirpation and anterior resection patients should consider the effect of temporary stomas. Improvements in quality of life scores over time may be explained by reversal of temporary stomas or physiologic adaptation.
After five years, cancer-free patients operated on for low or very low rectal cancer have a better QOL if a definitive terminal abdominal stoma was avoided.
Although rectal function was impaired in patients with low anastomosis, patients who had undergone AR had better QoL than patients who had undergone APR.
The present study shows that a stoma influences quality of life only slightly, while a relatively high anterior resection does not. However, a few appropriate newer studies indicate that the cost of spinchter-preserving techniques in the form of incontinence disturbances may influence the quality of life seriously, which should be borne in mind when low anterior resection is intended. Further studies in this field are necessary and could benefit from use of the Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life Scale, including its total score.
Trends suggested that having a stoma led to poorer scores in most aspects of quality of life and that having a stoma made some time after the initial operation was more distressing than having a stoma made during the primary cancer operation.
Assessing quality of life with general and specific instruments is helpful to determine whether patients improved through the treatment. The study showed that gender, age, and type of surgery influence sexuality and that quality of life after surgery for rectal cancer is impacted. Because quality of life is a predictor for complications and survival, availability of such data may help to direct supportive treatment to improve outcome.
Although most quality of life scores between stoma and nonstoma patients were similar, significant differences regarding body image, finance, and gastrointestinal symptoms, especially for married and less educated patients, were noticed. These factors should be taken into account, along with oncologic criteria, to better tailor treatments to patients.
Quality of life after rectal cancer surgery is not worse than that of the general population. The major adverse impact of bowel and urogenital dysfunction is on social functioning. These adverse effects need to be discussed with the patient and preoperative function needs to be taken into account when choosing between treatment options. Permanent colostomy is not always the factor that disrupts a person's quality of life most.
Coloanal anastomosis for distal rectal cancer has favorable long-term outcomes. Pelvic radiotherapy has an adverse effect on subsequent bowel function (whether given preoperatively or postoperatively) in patients who maintain intestinal continuity. Loss of intestinal continuity after a coloanal anastomosis is associated with diminished quality of life.
Compared with conventional bag care, regular irrigation improves the quality of life for patients with a colostomy. Postoperatively disordered erection is an independent risk factor for any abnormal self esteem and depression. They should be stressed more during history taking and therapeutically.
QoL in patients receiving an AR and those receiving an APR is not different. Although patients with APR experience more impaired sexuality, patients receiving an AR experience decreases in QoL because of impaired bowel function.
Younger patients, those with stomas, and those suffering from diarrhea or constipation are more likely to report poor health-related quality of life at six-week follow-up. The routine measurement of health-related quality of life using an instrument that includes a patient-rated scale together with condition-specific items could be used to detect patients at risk of poorer short-term health-related quality of life outcomes.
We found a significant association between difficulty paying for ostomy supplies and overall quality of life. Although the cross-sectional study design does not allow causal inference, the results suggest a relationship that merits further examination.
The authors underlined the entwining of biologic, psychosocial, and spiritual factors as determinants of the QOL of patients with cancer, thus supporting the multidimensional definition and modeling of the construct.
This is the first study to show the influence of geographic origin on quality of life of patients with a permanent colostomy. Possible factors that may influence the outcome of patients after surgical treatment of rectal cancer, such as weather, religion, or culture, should be taken into account when quality of life evaluations are considered.
Cancer patients' reporting of somatic symptoms by means of a standardized quality of life questionnaire is closely related to emotional and social distress and is not equivalent to health status as determined from a clinical perspective. Researchers and practitioners have to be aware of this fact when interpreting quality of life data. Furthermore, negative affect deserves attention as an important signal for intervention in tumor follow-up programs.
One year after low anterior resection patients had poor bowel function when compared with a control population of the same age and sex. A distinct anterior resection syndrome exists consisting of increased bowel frequency, erratic defecatory patterns, urgency, tenesmus, obstructed defecation, and minor fecal leakage. Furthermore, these disturbances in defecatory function did not differ significantly from symptoms produced by the rectal carcinoma, and patients experienced no major benefit from surgery from a functional point of view.
These findings tend to support the notion that patients with cancer try to maintain health quality of life at an acceptable level despite the occurrence of stressful negative events. Future research should explore the stable versus dynamic attributes of health quality of life to learn more about the factors that contribute to the adaptive process that maintains such quality of life at an acceptable level.
Those individuals who achieve a long term remission from colorectal carcinoma may experience a relatively high quality of life, although deficits remain for several areas, particularly in those of low socioeconomic status. Sampling design may have excluded the most severely ill patients.
Although nonstoma patients generally fare better than do stoma patients, they also suffer from physical impairments induced by sphincter-saving procedures (e.g., impaired bowel and sexual function). These impairments may become more prevalent as ultralow anastomosis is more frequently applied, resulting in bowel and sexual dysfunction and related psychologic distress. Well-designed studies are needed that examine whether quality-of-life benefits are to be gained by use of ultralow anastomosis compared with colostomy.
Complete resection of the envelope of supporting tissues about the rectum during APR, CAA, and AR when tumors were low in the rectum is associated with low mortality, low morbidity, low local recurrence, and good 5-year survival rates. Appropriate "tumor-specific" mesorectal excision during AR when the tumor is high in the rectum is likewise consistent with a low rate of local recurrence and good long-term survival. However, the overall failure rate of 40% in stage III disease (which is independent of surgical technique) means that surgical approaches alone are not sufficient to achieve better long-term survival rates.
The finding of younger age at diagnosis in HIV-positive compared to presumed HIV-negative patients may be related in part to earlier detection, as well as preexisting immunosuppression. The specific sites for which a significant difference in age between the HIV-positive and control cases was observed may be related to the mechanisms of immunosurveillance in parts of the body that have ready access to the outside environment. Knowledge of younger age of onset for these malignancies should prompt closer physical examination of these sites by clinicians.
In our population the crude incidence of NMSC has risen significantly over 10 years. Additionally, the combined male and female world population-corrected rate appears to be the highest published standardized incidence of NMSC to date from any European country.
Our findings support a role for HPV types from the genus beta in the pathogenesis of SCC.
Radiation treatment, particularly if experienced before age 20, seems to increase the long-term risk of both basal and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. These risks may differ by sun exposure or host response to sunlight exposure.
This comprehensive national study illustrates how rates of skin cancer in Irish RTRs have influenced the national incidence of skin cancer. The high incidence of SCC, basal cell carcinoma and Bowen's disease in the early post-transplant period for older patients and the cumulative risk in younger patients with increased duration of transplantation highlight the importance of implementing early and continued cancer surveillance regimens post-transplant.
Our study confirms the increased risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer among organ transplant recipients in a southern European population.
NMSC is a greater clinical problem in renal transplant recipients living in subtropical Queensland, Australia, than is shown by currently available registry data. This has implications for the development of prevention and surveillance strategies.
The incidence of treated NMSC in Australia in 2002 was more than five times the incidence of all other cancers combined. Although the overall NMSC rates have risen since 1985, the stabilisation of rates for people younger than 60 years who were exposed to skin cancer prevention programs in their youth highlights the importance of maintaining and strengthening these programs.
Nonmelanoma skin cancer mortality is diminishing despite increasing incidence. Mortality rates among blacks are extraordinarily high in comparison with their incidence rates. More careful attention to misclassification in mortality statistics is crucial for an accurate assessment of the public health burden of nonmelanoma skin cancer.
Loop excision provides a sample that is adequate for histologic evaluation in most cases, results in the same success rate as cold knife conization, and allows optimal colposcopic surveillance in significantly more cases than cold knife excision.
There were no substantive differences in outcomes regarding persistence and resolution in the treatment of squamous intraepithelial lesions for subjects receiving cone biopsy, cryotherapy, laser ablation, or LEEP.
The sequential administration of epirubicin and paclitaxel at full doses was found to be as active as their association. Therefore, both the sequential and the combined administration were acceptable options.
Combined gemcitabine and vinorelbine therapy appears comparable to sequential monotherapy for heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer as demonstrated by improved quality of life outcomes with similar therapeutic efficacies and incidences of adverse events.
Both the NX regimen and pre-planned sequential N → X regimen are acceptable as first-line treatments with comparable efficacies for MBC patients previously treated with anthracyclines and/or taxanes. Sequential monotherapies are recommended as the preferred approach to first-line chemotherapy for most MBC patients in the absence of an imminent visceral crisis and the need for rapid symptom and/or disease control.
Population-based access to new therapeutic agents for MBC appeared to be associated with improved survival. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first study to date that demonstrates, from a population-based perspective, improving survival over the past decade for women with MBC.
For these cohorts of patients, the authors present data suggesting that the prognosis for patients with recurrent breast cancer improved between 1974 and 2000.
Laparoscopy and intraoperative ultrasound are essential in staging patients with hepatic malignant neoplasms. Radiofrequency ablation when combined with CSA reduces the morbidity of multiple freezes. Although RFA is safer than CSA and can be performed via different approaches (percutaneously, laparoscopically, or at celiotomy), it is limited by tumor size (<3 cm). Percutaneous RFA should be considered in high-risk patients or those with small local recurrences.
The reporting of trial outcomes is not only frequently incomplete but also biased and inconsistent with protocols. Published articles, as well as reviews that incorporate them, may therefore be unreliable and overestimate the benefits of an intervention. To ensure transparency, planned trials should be registered and protocols should be made publicly available prior to trial completion.
This study emphasizes the importance of staging in the choice of treatment modality and diffusion of HCC in affecting an overall response to treatment and survival. Surgery is highly effective in monofocal HCC of Okuda I and II without cirrhosis. TACE is effective in Okuda I and II and Child A cirrhosis only. The treatment of HCC in Child B cirrhosis needs further studies. In Child C and/or Okuda stage III of HCC, any treatment except pure symptomatic relief is detrimental and should not be used.
By adding modalities such as targeted systemic therapy and other "local" treatments for liver metastases, further gains in survival are anticipated.
Radiofrequency ablation may be more effective than other treatments in terms of less recurrence of HCC and may be as safe, although the evidence is scant. There was not enough evidence to determine the safety or efficacy of RFA for treatment of CLM.
Although use of fibrin sealant resulted in a nonsignificant decrease in seroma formation rate compared with that of drain placement, the higher cost involved, cumbersome technique, and higher aspirate volumes tend to indicate that there is no advantage to using fibrin glue over drain placement with the technique described.
Application of fibrin sealant following axillary dissection at the time of lumpectomy or modified radical mastectomy can significantly decrease the duration and quantity of serosanguinous drainage. The viral safety of the product was also supported.
The current evidence does not support the use of fibrin sealant in breast cancer surgery to reduce postoperative drainage or seroma formation.
Half negative suction drains provide an effective compromise between no suction and full or high suction drainage after modified radical mastectomy by reducing the hospital stay and the post operative morbidity including post operative seromas.
Five-day post-operative drainage is as safe as 8-day post-operative drainage in the management of patients undergoing major breast surgery, but results in an increase in lymphocele aspiration and aspiration volume.
External compression dressing fails to decrease postoperative drainage and may increase the incidence of seroma formation after drain removal. Thus, routine use of a compression dressing to reduce postoperative drainage after ALND for breast cancer is not warranted.
Use of electrocautery to create skin flaps in mastectomy reduced blood loss but increased the rate of seroma formation.
Topical tetracycline is not effective at preventing post-mastectomy wound seromas.
Use of fibrin glue with collagen patches does not always prevent seroma formation, but it does reduce seroma magnitude and duration, as well as necessary evacuative punctures.
Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy using cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil was safe and well tolerated; however, no clear survival benefit could be demonstrated.
Postoperative gemcitabine significantly delayed the development of recurrent disease after complete resection of pancreatic cancer compared with observation alone. These results support the use of gemcitabine as adjuvant chemotherapy in resectable carcinoma of the pancreas.
The survival of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated by pancreaticoduodenectomy is improving. Aspects of tumor biology, such as DNA content, tumor diameter, nodal status and margin status, are the strongest predictors of outcome.
brain tumour survivors can improve function with multidisciplinary rehabilitation, with some gains maintained up to 6 months. Evidence for specific interventions in the 'blackbox' of rehabilitation is needed.
Patients with brain tumors can achieve good functional outcomes with a shorter length of stay.
Thus, individuals with brain tumor can achieve comparable functional outcome and have a shorter rehabilitation length of stay and greater discharge to community rate than individuals with brain injury.
PE/PT were feasible in >90 % of terminally ill cancer patients to whom PE/PT had been offered. Physical exercises, relaxation therapy, and breathing training were the most frequently applicable methods. Prospective trials are needed to evaluate the efficacy of specific PE/PT programs in terminally ill cancer patients.
These findings suggest that patients with brain tumors commonly complain of moderate level of fatigue, which may reduce daily functioning and quality of life, with sleep disturbance being a significant predictor of fatigue. During rehabilitation, functional outcomes and motor power showed improvements in those patients, not aggravating fatigue.
Metastatic or primary brain tumor type does not affect the efficiency of functional improvement during inpatient rehabilitation. Patients receiving concurrent radiation therapy make greater functional improvement per day than those not receiving radiation. Patients with recurrent tumors make significantly smaller functional motor gains than those completing inpatient rehabilitation after the tumor's initial diagnosis.
Daily functional gains made by persons with brain tumor undergoing rehabilitation were similar to those made by a group of persons with TBI matched by age, gender, and admission functional status. Further research should use larger samples and address the impact of psychosocial and team factors on LOS and discharge disposition.
Patients with primary and metastatic brain tumours achieved functional gains after rehabilitation. High functional improvement is a significant predictor of longer survival in brain metastases and GBM. This study has implications for rehabilitation in the post-acute management of patients who have disabilities due to brain tumours.
Brain tumors in the elderly have specific characteristics that determine their biologic behavior and response to therapy. There is a need for clinical studies designed for treatment of brain tumors in older patients, and requirements for rehabilitation and support systems for the elderly need to be addressed.
The findings have direct clinical relevance: irrespective of years since diagnosis, comprehensive and extended supportive care services are required to identify breast cancer survivors in need of supportive care interventions and remediate high levels of anxiety.
Muscle strength and fitness values among BT survivors were similar to those among individuals aged > or = 60 years and were associated with physical performance limitations. Physical performance limitations were associated with poor outcomes in home and school environments. The current data indicated an opportunity for interventions targeted at improving long-term physical function in this survivor population.
Empirical findings within a biopsychosocial perspective may guide the development and delivery of support services for individuals with brain tumor; however, many important areas exist for future research.
These results substantiate our assumption that CBT is an effective intervention for young patients surviving brain tumors and may be particularly helpful to younger individuals in managing cancer-related limitations.
Systematic reviews need to be conducted as carefully as the trials they report and, to achieve full impact, systematic reviews need to meet high methodologic standards.
Structured physical training programs initiated during inpatient rehabilitation and continuously practiced in the time thereafter can improve symptoms of chronic fatigue and quality of life in breast cancer patients.
Physical and psychosocial benefits from a modest walking exercise program and a support group are possible for patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.
This article outlines methods used in the PSROP, provides an overview of participating IRFs, describes the database, and summarizes key characteristics to enable readers of subsequent articles to better interpret study findings and determine generalizability.
The CaSPUN permits the identification of long-term supportive care needs in generic populations of cancer survivors' partners and will assist with the formulation of recommendations regarding required supportive care services.
Pain is the most frequent assessed impairment after breast cancer treatment with strong relationship to perceived disability and health related QOL. Disability is mild and health related QOL (RAND-36) differed in three of the nine domains with a female norm group.
We conclude that (1) among this group of gynecologic oncologists superficial inguinal and medial femoral lymphadenectomy is the most commonly performed procedure for women with early vulvar cancer and that the procedure is frequently called superficial inguinal lymphadenectomy; (2) publications and protocols on this topic must provide complete descriptions of procedures performed, and investigators must assure that individual surgeons are performing the same procedure; and (3) treatment results with superficial inguinal and medial femoral lymphadenectomy are poorly described and a fertile area for further study.
There are dominant histologic groups in each female genital tract site that are largely responsible for incidence and survival statistics. Within the groups, however, there are subtypes with differing features. Epidemiologic studies may provide more definite information by considering the effect of these subtypes in examining risk factors.
The mean operative time, blood loss was found to be was found to be less in GA group patients than in awake group. Better tumor cytoreduction, neurological improvement was seen in GA group (motor improvement in 35.7%, speech improvement in 62.5%) than in awake group patients (motor improvement in 18.7%, speech improvement in 14.3%).
Based on the best available evidence, it appears that cytoreductive resection in adults with supratentorial malignant glioma is associated with improved overall survival as compared with biopsy. However, well-designed prospective studies are needed for more solid conclusions to be drawn.
There is no rationale for the routine use of neuronavigation to improve the extent of tumor resection and prognosis in patients harboring a solitary enhancing intracerebral lesion when neuronavigation is not already deemed advantageous because of the size or location of the lesion.
This approach permits examination of the interaction between prognostic variables not possible with other forms of multivariate analysis.
Stereotactic brain biopsy is an extremely safe and effective procedure for evaluating intracranial lesions. Complex surgical planning can decrease the risk of potential complications and the use of intraoperative pathologic examination can improve the diagnostic yield for this procedure.
Our findings demonstrate a significant drop on the fatigue severity scale in MS patients after treatment with amantadine; nevertheless, more studies on a larger scale with longer duration are needed to confirm this finding.
Many patients with HIV- and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-unrelated fatigue respond favorably to treatment with methylphenidate or pemoline. Both psychostimulants appear to be equally effective and significantly superior to placebo in decreasing fatigue severity with minimal side effects. Moreover, improvement of fatigue was significantly associated with improved quality of life and decreased levels of depression and psychological distress.
Prophylactic use of d-MPH in brain tumor patients undergoing RT did not result in an improvement in QOL.
Low-dose methylphenidate did not improve cancer-related fatigue. Patients taking methylphenidate had better cognition and were able to work more hours. Patients tolerated methylphenidate well, and the majority felt better and wanted to continue treatment.
Modafinil may be useful in controlling cancer-related fatigue in patients who present with severe fatigue but is not useful in patients with mild or moderate fatigue.
Cognitive functioning in MS is independent of fatigue. Neither amantadine nor pemoline enhances cognitive performance in MS compared with placebo.
The results of this small randomized trial indicated that patients with end-stage COPD may benefit from antidepressant drug therapy when significant depressive symptoms are present. This study underlined the difficulties in conducting experimental studies in frail and elderly patients with COPD.
Compared to PL, MOD improved fatigue, focused attention and dexterity and enhanced motor cortex excitability in this group of patients. MOD may be helpful in MS patients with fatigue to improve cognitive and motor abilities.
This small study demonstrated that although modafinil may be effective in reducing physical fatigability in PD, it did not improve fatigue symptoms.
As we found in our RCT of modafinil, armodafinil appears effective and well tolerated in treating fatigue in HIV+ patients. Side effects were minimal and most patients reported substantially improved energy and mood.
Methylphenidate is effective in treating fatigue in men with prostate cancer; however, oncologists need to monitor for possible pulse and blood pressure elevations.
There was no improvement of fatigue in patients with multiple sclerosis treated with modafinil vs placebo according to the Modified Fatigue Impact Scale.
This randomized trial demonstrates that ATP has beneficial effects on weight, muscle strength, and QOL in patients with advanced NSCLC.
This pilot study suggests that methylphenidate may reduce asthenia and improve quality of life in breast cancer patients treated with docetaxel.
This is the first report that shows bupropion SR can reduce fatigue in cancer patients. Controlled studies with more homogeneous samples would be necessary to establish the efficacy of this intervention. Further studies should address whether this effect of bupropion is separate from its action as an antidepressant.
Power to detect differences between modafinil and placebo was limited because of the premature discontinuation of the trial. Although modafinil did not show evidence of benefit over placebo on the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, secondary measures suggested modafinil may have provided benefit for symptoms of excessive sleepiness in patients with depression.
Assessing and managing chemotherapy-related fatigue remains a major challenge. There was a lack of difference between the two arms in the planned primary endpoint. However, there was a modest but consistent trend towards improvement of docetaxel-related fatigue in those treated with modafinil. Based on the study findings, modafinil for the treatment of fatigue associated with docetaxel chemotherapy elicits modest improvements. Larger, longer term, randomized, controlled studies are required to clarify the exact role of modafinil in the treatment of docetaxel-related fatigue.
Epidural methadone plus lidocaine resulted in dose-dependent analgesia, further improved by epidural dexamethasone, which also improved fatigue.
This study is underpowered, but there are no trends to suggest that d-MPH, taken concurrently with adjuvant chemotherapy, improves quality of life or fatigue.
The odds of reduced multiple sclerosis fatigue were around twice as great with glatiramer acetate treatment as with beta interferon. Confirmation of this result is required.
These findings suggest that treatment for depression is associated with reductions in the severity of fatigue symptoms, and that this relationship is due primarily to treatment related changes in mood.
These data suggest that 200 mg/day modafinil significantly improves fatigue and is well tolerated in patients with MS.
This study is the first trial on the use of amisulpride in a cohort of oncological, depressed patients during chemotherapy. Amisulpride demonstrated high efficacy and safety. Controlled studies are needed to confirm these preliminary data.
Patients with multiple sclerosis improved by 2 GNDS points after starting vitamin B-12 injections. The addition of lofepramine and L-phenylalanine added a further 0.6 points benefit. More research is needed to confirm and explore the significance of this clinically small difference.
Treatment with modafinil significantly improves fatigue and sleepiness and is well tolerated by patients with MS. Unlike the higher dose regimen required in narcolepsy, a low-dose regimen of modafinil is effective in MS.
Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent administration to patients with cancer is associated with increased risks of VTE and mortality. Our findings, in conjunction with basic science studies on erythropoietin and erythropoietin receptors in solid cancers, raise concern about the safety of ESA administration to patients with cancer.
The Spanish version of PFS-R shows satisfactory psychometric properties in a sample of breast cancer survivors. This is the first study to translate the PFS-R into Spanish and further testing is warranted.
Recommendations are made for the selection of a scale and for the development and validation of new and existing scales.
Patients with advanced CKD and ESRD experience profound fatigue. Depressive symptoms, restless legs syndrome, excessive daytime sleepiness, and low albumin levels may provide targets for interventions to improve fatigue in patients with advanced CKD.
Fatigue is a common non-motor symptom in PD and seems to be associated with female gender, dysthymia, severity of depression and daily somnolence.
Unidimensional scales are the easiest to administer and have been most widely used. The authors recommend the use of the EORTC QLQ C30 fatigue subscale or the FACT F. The FQ gives a multidimensional assessment and has also been widely used. A substantial minority of the scales identified have not been used extensively or sufficiently validated in cancer patients and cannot be recommended for routine use without further validation.
Patients with advanced AIDS in South Africa suffer significantly from pain and many distressing symptoms. In the light of the HIV/AIDS pandemic in South Africa reforms are needed to increase knowledge and education in the palliative management of AIDS.
The panel concluded that the available evidence supports a variety of interventions for treating cancer patients' pain, depression, and fatigue. Clinicians should routinely use brief assessment tools to ask patients about pain, depression, and fatigue and to initiate evidence-based treatments. Assessment should include discussion about common symptoms experienced by cancer patients, and these discussions should continue over the duration of the illness. Impediments to effective symptom management in cancer patients can arise from different sources and interactions among providers, patients and their families, and the health care system. Numerous factors could interfere with adequate symptom management. Among these factors are incomplete effectiveness of some treatments, a lack of sufficient knowledge regarding effective treatment strategies, patient reluctance to report symptoms to caregivers, a belief that such symptoms are simply a part of the cancer experience that must be tolerated, and inadequate coverage and reimbursement for some treatments. Additional research is needed on the definition, occurrence, the treatment of pain, depression, and fatigue, alone and in combination, in adequately funded prospective studies. The panel also concluded that the state of the science in cancer symptom management should be reassessed periodically.
Physical activity improves cardiorespiratory fitness during and after cancer treatment, symptoms and physiologic effects during treatment, and vigor posttreatment. Additional physical activity intervention studies are needed to more firmly establish the range and magnitude of positive effects of physical activity among cancer survivors.
Fatigue for this sample of chronic heart failure patients was significantly predicted by depression, EF and NYHA. Additional research is needed to explore patterns of fatigue and its related factors over time.
Palliation of symptoms in MM is achievable with current cisplatin-based treatments.
Pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin was approved by the FDA on February 4, 2004 for the treatment of patients with MPM whose disease is either unresectable or who are otherwise not candidates for curative surgery. The recommended dose of pemetrexed is 500 mg/m(2) intra venous infusion over 10 minutes on day 1 of each 21-day cycle in combination with 75 mg/m(2) cisplatin infused over 2 hours beginning 30 minutes after the pemetrexed infusion. Patients must receive oral folic acid and vitamin B(12) injections before the start and during therapy to reduce severe toxicities. Patients should also receive corticosteroids with the chemotherapy to decrease the incidence of skin rash. Approval was based on a demonstration of survival improvement in a single randomized trial. Response rates and time to tumor progression were not included in product labeling because of inconsistencies in assessments among the investigators, independent radiologic reviewers, and the FDA, reflecting the difficulty of radiographic assessments in malignant mesothelioma. Complete prescribing information is available on the FDA Web site at http://www.fda.gov/cder/approval/index.htm.
The subgroup with the best survival (MST=13.9 months) included patients with PS=0 and age younger than 49 years, and patients with PS=0, age of 49 years or older, and HGB > or =14.6. The worst survival (MST= 1.4 months) occurred for patients with PS= 1/2 and WBC > or =15.6/microL.
Australia's high incidence of mesothelioma is related to high past asbestos use, of all fiber types, in a wide variety of occupational and environmental settings. The number of cases in total is expected to be about 18,000 by 2020, with about 11,000 yet to appear.
MVP is a well tolerated regimen and its use in malignant mesothelioma provides useful symptomatic benefit. These results should be the basis for further trials of MVP in the management of mesothelioma with symptom control as a principal endpoint.
There are variations in policy and practice across TAR groups regarding searching for and inclusion of studies available as conference abstracts/presentations. There is also variation in the level of detail reported in TARs regarding the use of abstracts/presentations. Therefore, TAR teams should be encouraged to state explicitly their search strategies for identifying conference abstracts and presentations, their methods for assessing these for inclusion, and where appropriate how the data were used and their effect on the results. Comprehensive searching for trials available as conference abstracts/presentations is time consuming and may be of questionable value. However, there may be a case for searching for and including abstract/presentation data if, for example, other sources of data are limited. If conference abstracts/presentations are to be included, the TAR teams need to allocate additional time for searching and managing data from these sources. Incomplete reporting in conference abstracts and presentations limits the ability of reviewers to assess confidently the methodological quality of trials. Where conference abstracts and presentations are considered for inclusion in the review, the TAR teams should increase their efforts to obtain further study details by contacting trialists. Where abstract/presentation data are included, reviewers should discuss the effect of including data from these sources. Any data discrepancies identified across sources in TARs should be highlighted and their impact discussed in the review. In addition, there is a need to carry out, for example, a sensitivity analysis with and without abstract/presentation data in the analysis. There is a need for research into the development of search strategies specific to identification of studies available as conference abstracts and presentations in TARs. Such strategies may include guidance with regard to identification of relevant electronic databases and appropriate conference sites relevant to certain clinical areas. As there are limited case studies included in this report, analyses should be repeated as more TARs accrue, or include the work of other international HTA groups.
In this controlled trial, patients with cutaneous SCC in situ receiving topical imiquimod 5% cream as monotherapy experienced a high degree of clinical benefit compared with placebo.
Compared with topical 5-FU, MAL PDT was a more effective and cosmetically acceptable treatment for epidermal dysplasia in OTRs and was preferred by patients. Further studies are now required to confirm these results and to examine the effect of treating epidermal dysplasia with PDT on subsequent development of squamous cell carcinoma in this high risk population.
Topical ALA-PDT is more effective than topical 5-FU in the treatment of BD, with fewer adverse events. ALA-PDT should be considered one of the first-line therapeutic options for BD.
This study suggests a superiority of C&C over cryotherapy in the treatment of BD, especially for lesions on the lower leg. Curettage of lesions of BD is associated with a significantly shorter healing time, less pain, fewer complications and a lower recurrence rate when compared with cryotherapy.
Topical 5% imiquimod cream seems to be safe on skin areas up to 60 cm2 in renal transplant recipients. It may be effective in reducing cutaneous dysplasia and the frequency of squamous tumors developing in high-risk patients. Larger studies are required to confirm these results.
We find no evidence in these population-based cohort data of and increased risk of subsequent internal cancer associated with Bowen's disease or other forms of nonmelanomatous skin cancer.
Infection with high-risk HPV types is common in BD of the nail unit suggesting the aetiological cause. Therefore, patients and partners should be closely followed up for digital and genital HPV-associated lesions.
Patients with Bowen disease do not appear to constitutionally be at any unusually high general cancer risk. The increased risk of invasive skin and lip cancers is likely due to the common risk factor of UV light.
The majority of digital HPV-associated SCCs or SCCs in situ involves the nailbed region. The clinical appearance is most commonly that of a periungual verruca. Tumors have a higher rate of recurrence after excision than SCC in other sites. Periungual and subungual warts caused by high-risk HPV subtypes pose a risk for malignant transformation in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised hosts.
Music is a simple, inexpensive, and easily used strategy to minimize anxiety and pain during colposcopy examination.
This study suggests that the provision of sending an information leaflet prior to colposcopy is not beneficial in isolation. Other approaches need to be considered.
Benzocaine, in a spray vehicle, confers no benefit when used to decrease pain and anxiety in women undergoing colposcopic procedures.
Mind-body interventions had no statistically significant impact on reported anxiety, perceived pain, or satisfaction with care, even for those who anticipated the most pain or started with high anxiety.
This trial indicates that having choice did not impact favourably or harmfully on anxiety or feelings of wellbeing. If a patient is anxious, allowing the patient to choose immediate colposcopy may be preferable because it will improve ascertainment of underlying disease in a group who are more likely to default.
The SF-36 is a promising new instrument for measuring health perception in a general population. It is easy to use, acceptable to patients, and fulfils stringent criteria of reliability and validity. Its use in other contexts and with different disease groups requires further research.
The inherent power structure of medical practice combined with time pressures often make it difficult for doctors to give the detailed information and reassurance patients need when a diagnosis is distressing or when investigation and treatment are strange and upsetting.
There may be little benefit in providing specialist genetics services to all women with a family history of breast cancer. Further investigation of factors that may mediate the impact of genetic assessment is in progress and may reveal subgroups of women who would benefit from specialist genetics services.
A personalized risk assessment and genetic counseling intervention improves patient knowledge and risk perception; however, it is unclear that the intervention influenced menopausal treatment decisions.
Within the population studied, the referral screening tool seems to be a reliable and valid tool to identify individuals who should be referred for consideration of BRCA1/2 testing. Further examination of the referral screening tool in primary care settings is warranted to assess its impact on the efficiency with which health care providers triage patients to cancer genetics services.
In some at-risk women, high cancer anxiety may lead to high general anxiety and precipitate hypervigilant breast self-examination rather than avoidance. These findings are discussed in relation to psychoeducational interventions and genetic counseling services for women with a family history of breast cancer.
Although CTGC did not lead to significant improvements in perceived risk or psychological functioning, African American women may benefit from genetic counseling and testing. Continued efforts should be made to increase access to genetic counseling and testing among African American women at increased risk for hereditary disease. But, follow-up support may be needed for women who have a personal history of cancer and those with a greater prior probability of having a BRCA1/2 mutation.
There is strong interest in BRCA1 testing. Despite considerable ignorance of factors affecting the inheritance of breast cancer, education neither reduced nor increased interest to undergo testing. The NICE guidelines successfully triage those with a high breast cancer risk to be managed in cancer genetics clinics.
Evaluating the potential for program adoption offers insight for tailoring preventive health interventions and their implementation strategies to improve diffusion in the field of practice.
The PAT is a simple and accurate tool for identifying women at risk for the hereditary breast cancer syndromes that can be employed as part of a comprehensive breast cancer risk-screening strategy in the primary care setting.
This study demonstrated the feasibility of a multidisciplinary team approach to breast cancer risk assessment and counseling and management of psychological distress in first-degree relatives of women with breast cancer. The data suggest that a psychological intervention may reduce cancer-specific psychological distress in women at increased risk for breast cancer.
Computer-based tailored and interactive soap operas that are linguistically and culturally appropriate are effective in increasing breast cancer screening knowledge and beliefs among underserved Spanish-speaking Hispanic women.
Standard educational approaches may be equally effective as expanded counseling approaches in enhancing knowledge. Since knowledge is a key aspect of medical decision-making, standard education may be adequate in situations where genetic testing must be streamlined. On the other hand, it has been argued that optimal decision-making requires not only knowledge, but also a reasoned evaluation of the positive and negative consequences of alternate decisions. Although the counseling approach is more likely to achieve this goal, it may not diminish interest in testing, even among women at low to moderate risk. Future research should focus on the merits of these alternate approaches for subgroups of individuals with different backgrounds who are being counseled in the variety of settings where BRCA1 testing is likely to be offered.
In low- to moderate-risk African American women, pretest education and counseling may motivate BRCA1 testing. Further research is needed to explore the mechanisms of impact of the alternate pretest education strategies and to increase the cultural sensitivity of education and counseling protocols.
Hereditary breast cancer due to mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 was a heterogeneous syndrome in the southeastern United States. Most mutations were seen just once, and uncharacterized variants were common and of uncertain clinical significance. In general, positive test results tended to reinforce intentions toward prophylactic surgery. In contrast, women not interested in surgery at the time of entry tended to remain reluctant after testing and counseling.
These results suggest that standard breast cancer risk counseling could have an adverse impact on the health behaviors of less-educated women.
These data indicate that preliminary print education can be used to educate low-risk individuals about BRCA1/BRCA2 genetic testing. This approach may be used to educate low-risk individuals about the benefits and risks/limitations of BRCA1/BRCA2 testing, so that they can make informed decisions about whether to pursue genetic counseling.
TC has the potential to support maintenance of mammogram use. Modifications are needed to maximize this potential and additional methods should be used in conjunction with TC to reach women who are underusers of mammography.
Decision aids are an effective decision-support strategy for women considering genetic testing for breast/ovarian cancer risk, and are most effective before the patient has made a decision, which is generally at the point of having blood drawn.
The developed decision aid improved patient outcomes better than a control pamphlet when implemented during genetic counseling and given to the patient to take home.
Computer-based systems in the primary care intervention cannot be recommended for widespread use without further evaluation and testing in real practice settings. Genetic nurse counsellors may be a cost-effective alternative to assessment by doctors. This trial does not provide definitive evidence that the general policy of employing genetics nurse counsellors is sound, as it was based on only three individuals. Future evaluations of computer-based decision support systems for primary care must first address their efficacy under ideal conditions, identify barriers to the use of such systems in practice, and provide evidence of the impact of the policy of such systems in routine practice. The nurse counsellor trial should be replicated in other settings to provide reassurance of the generalisability of the intervention and other models of nurse-based assessment, such as in outreach clinics, should be developed and evaluated. The design of future evaluations of professional substitution should also address issues such as the effect of different levels of training and experience of nurse counsellors, and learning effects.
No convincing evidence of the effectiveness of the intervention was found, probably reflecting barriers to its use in routine practice.
Genetic counseling for familial cancer is associated with improvement in knowledge but does not have an adverse effect on affective outcomes. We urge further investigation of these findings through well-designed, well-reported, randomized controlled trials with suitable comparison groups and additional outcome measures.
Genetic counseling for familial cancer is associated with improvement in knowledge but does not have an adverse effect on affective outcomes. We urge further investigation of these findings through well-designed, well-reported, randomized controlled trials with suitable comparison groups and additional outcome measures [J Natl Cancer Inst 2004; 96:122-33].
GPs readily identify a role for themselves in cancer genetics services, but admit to a lack of confidence in this area, calling for clear referral guidelines and specialist community support. Current inappropriate referral to specialist services results from a lack of confidence in estimating cancer risk, highlighting the need for the development of clear referral criteria. Given the rapidly increasing demand for cancer genetics services and the vital role of primary care, it is important to identify a model of these services that facilitates effective involvement of GPs without further increasing their workload.
A substantial proportion of women with suspicious mammograms have psychological difficulties, even after learning that they do not have cancer. Such sequelae do not appear to interfere with subsequent adherence.
Surgical treatment of vulvar cancer has a negative impact on sexual function, quality of life, and satisfaction with partner relationship. However, hitherto only little research effort has been directed to postoperative sexual well-being in vulvar cancer survivors. There is a need for more methodological sound prospective studies that explore sexual function, quality of life, and partner relationship and its predictors over time in vulvar cancer patients.
The results suggest that the vaccine may have an effect on HPV-positive vulval intraepithelial neoplasia/vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia and that additional studies are warranted to develop an effective therapeutic vaccine.
Due to a change in sexual behavior and an increased rate of HPV infection among younger women, increased incidence of both diseases has to be expected. The age-standardized mortality rate of vulvar carcinoma in Europe is stated at 0.7/100,000 women, and that of vaginal carcinoma at 0.4/100.000 women. To what extent the HPV-vaccination affects incidence and mortality rates is continually being observed.
HPV-related lower genital tract lesions and GW significantly impair psychosocial wellbeing and HRQoL. The psychosocial aspects of HPV-related diseases need to be considered when evaluating the potential benefit of HPV vaccination.
Clinical responses in women with HPV-16-positive, grade 3 vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia can be achieved by vaccination with a synthetic long-peptide vaccine against the HPV-16 oncoproteins E6 and E7. Complete responses appear to be correlated with induction of HPV-16-specific immunity.
Imiquimod is effective in the treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN11290871 [controlled-trials.com].).
This large cohort of women with VIN 2/3 further delineates the demographic and clinical factors associated with VIN 2/3. High rates of recurrence were noted and found to be associated with smoking, larger lesion size, and positive margins. While higher rates of recurrence were found among those treated with laser ablation, it was not inferior with respect to RFS when used alone, but the use of laser with excision was associated with decreased RFS. Our findings provide hypothesis-generating material for further research in the management of VIN2/3.
A consensus of terminology for HPV-related vulvar SIL has been sought for some time, and currently, some consensus has been achieved. The term "squamous intraepithelial lesion" is favored over "intraepithelial neoplasia." A 2-tier classification, of "high grade (HSIL)" or "low grade (LSIL)," is favored over a 3- or 4-tier classification. The application of this terminology will be discussed.
The response rates are clinically relevant, and the treatment regimen was feasible for the majority. Initial nonresponders to imiquimod seem to be relatively refractory, and this may derive from their unfavorable local immune environment, in particular, the increased proportions of T regulatory cells, possibly the limiting action and/or development of any HPV T-cell immunity. The potential benefit of this treatment is its ability to treat multifocal disease.
Ultrasound-guided CT-FNAB was the best tool to identify primary MTC and LRs/node metastases in MTC operated subjects. This may have important implications in the management of MTC.
Despite the higher sensitivity of serum CT measurement, as compared with FNAC to diagnose MTC (98% vs. 63%), only 9% of patients might have escaped to surgery based on FNAC results. However, indication for surgery based on suspicious FNAC may not alert the surgeon for the need of a TT and exploration of nodes at least in the central compartment.
In MTC patients, extrathyroidal extension and stage at diagnosis are the only independent predictors of (recurrence-free) life expectancy. Patients diagnosed in an early stage of disease and patients without detectable recurrence have favourable life expectancy independently of biochemical cure.
Survival varied markedly among patients with different histologic types of thyroid carcinoma. Stage at diagnosis and tumor differentiation were important prognostic factors for each histologic type. Age at diagnosis was a stronger predictor of survival for patients with follicular and medullary carcinoma than for patients with papillary carcinoma.
The NCDB system permits analysis of care patterns and survival for large numbers of contemporaneous U. S. patients with relatively rare neoplasms, such as thyroid carcinoma. In this context, it represents an unsurpassed clinical tool for analyzing care, evaluating prognostic models, generating new hypotheses, and overcoming the volume-related drawbacks inherent in the study of such neoplasms. [See editorial on pages 2434-6, this issue.]
One hundred twenty-two evidence-based recommendations were created to assist in the clinical care of MTC patients and to share what we believe is current, rational, and optimal medical practice.
Irrespective of the pathophysiological background, pentagastrin stimulation affords a differential diagnosis in neuroendocrine carcinoma of the foregut when chronic renal failure is excluded.
Ultrasonography altered the clinical management for 63% of the patients (109 of 173) referred to the thyroid nodule clinic after abnormal results on thyroid physical examination.
The rate of malignancy in incidentally detected impalpable thyroid nodules was 12% in retrospective analysis of our patients. In this subgroup, 69% (25/36) of patients had either extrathyroidal extension or regional node involvement and 39% had multifocal tumours at surgery. This suggests that the small size alone does not guarantee low risk in incidentally found thyroid cancers. USGFNA is a useful diagnostic method in these patients.
The natural history of thyroid disorders, including simple goiter, chronic thyroiditis, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, and nodular diseases of the thyroid, indicates they are dynamic and changeable in form, function, appearance, and disappearance.
High-resolution ultrasonography is sensitive and capable of detecting many small, nonpalpable thyroid nodules. Most of these lesions are benign. For most patients with nonpalpable nodules that are incidentally detected by thyroid imaging, simple follow-up neck palpation is sufficient.
This historical cohort study has provided incidence data for thyroid disease over a twenty-year period for a representative cross-sectional sample of the population, and has allowed the determination of the importance of prognostic risk factors for thyroid disease identified twenty years earlier.
Small sample size precludes definitive answers, but results from this preliminary trial suggest that homeopathy may be of value in the treatment of menopausal symptoms and improving quality of life, especially in those women not on tamoxifen. Larger studies should be carried out that also include healthy women who want to avoid hormone replacement therapy.
This study indicates that TRAUMEEL S may reduce significantly the severity and duration of chemotherapy-induced stomatitis in children undergoing bone marrow transplantation.
This large degree of variability most likely is due to different understandings of "complementary/alternative medicine" on the part of both investigators and patients. It is likely that the results of the current study reflect the primarily adjunctive use of CAM treatments. Future studies should use a standardized protocol to determine the true prevalence of these therapies more closely.
It is imperative that health professionals explore the use of CAM with their cancer patients, educate them about potentially beneficial therapies in light of the limited available evidence of effectiveness, and work towards an integrated model of health-care provision.
Laparoscopic colorectal resection was associated with a lower incidence of long-term complications and a better quality of life in the first 12 months after surgery compared with open surgery. No difference between groups was found in overall and disease-free survival rates.
Laparoscopic surgery provides better postoperative QoL in many clinical situations. Researchers would improve the quality of future studies by using validated QoL instruments such as those recommended here.
Laparoscopy does not seem to adversely affect chance of cure of colorectal cancer.
Laparoscopic resection results in reduced operative blood loss and earlier recovery with oncologic clearance and operative time comparable with open surgery. Laparoscopic liver surgery may be considered the approach of choice for tumors located in the left hepatic lobe.
LLSEC should be carried out by laparoscopy in centres where they have considerable experience. The patients may have a shorter hospital stay and spend less time in surgery than when OS is performed, with the same morbidity and mortality rates. Segmentectomy resections II or III carried out by laparoscopy involve a shorter hospital stay but longer surgery time and therefore the advantages are not as evident as they are for LLSEC.
Liver resections of up to two segments can be performed by laparoscopy using the same technique as that used during open surgery. However, the benefits observed compared with open surgery appear to be limited.
Laparoscopic hepatectomy avoids some of the disadvantages of open hepatectomy and is beneficial for patient quality of life (QOL) as a minimally invasive procedure if the operative indications are appropriately based on preoperative liver function and the location and size of HCC.
This study demonstrates the safety of laparoscopic left lateral lobectomy. Despite longer operation and clamping time, without any clinical consequences, the laparoscopic approach was associated with decreased blood loss and absence of specific complications of the hepatic resection.
Short-term outcome of laparoscopic liver resection compares to that of conventional surgery, with the additional benefits derived from minimal invasive therapy.
Laparoscopic hepatectomy has the advantages of reducing the amount of operative blood loss because of the magnified view afforded by the laparoscope and shortening the hospital stay. The procedure is therefore recommended for patients with appropriate liver tumors, in particular, hepatocellular carcinoma in the cirrhotic liver.
Laparoscopic liver segmentectomy and bisegmentectomy are feasible, safe and cost effective compared to similar open resections. Large-scale application of laparoscopic liver surgery could translate into significant savings to hospitals and health care programmes.
Laparoscopic liver resection is technically feasible, but, at present, careful patient selection is required.
LLR is associated with decreased morbidity and decreased resource utilization compared with OLR. Perioperative patient outcomes and cost-effectiveness justify LLR despite introduction of standardized postoperative liver resection guidelines and decreased length of stay for OLR.
LLR for hepatic neoplasms seems to be noninferior to OLR regarding adequacy of surgical margins, and superior to OLR regarding short-term postoperative outcome.
LLR significantly reduced time to oral intake, hospital stay, and incisional hernias compared to OS. Bleeding is a major risk and should be carefully considered when resecting benign tumors. In the hands of expert surgeons, LLR may become the gold standard for the resection of benign liver tumors located in the anterior and lateral sectors and for minor hepatic resections.
Prospective, standardized, audited, multiinstitutional data were analyzed to identify several preoperative and intraoperative factors associated with morbidity and mortality after liver resection. These factors should be considered during patient selection and perioperative management.
G-CSF reduces the hematological toxicity of intensification chemotherapy and may allow improved compliance with treatment scheduling.
Our study has confirmed the safety of individually determined administration of G-CSF. The optimal timing of G-CSF application after ASCT in patients with good-quality grafts is shortly before expected spontaneous engraftment.
Administration of GM-CSF was associated with acceleration of myeloid and platelet recovery and was cost effective in the treatment of patients with relapsed Hodgkin disease who received intensive chemotherapy.
This study shows that the prophylactic administration of G-CSF following intensification chemotherapy for childhood ALL and T-NHL produces a significant reduction in the rate of readmission to hospital for the management of febrile neutropenia.
G-CSF treatment had some clinical benefit in children who received induction chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia, but it did not reduce the rate of hospitalization for febrile neutropenia, prolong survival, or reduce the cost of supportive care.
Giving oral prophylactic antibiotics to SCLC patients undergoing chemotherapy is the dominant strategy in both GE and NL, demonstrating both cost-savings and superior efficacy. The sensitivity analyses demonstrate that, due to the efficacy of prophylactic antibiotics and their low unit cost, cost savings will incur over a broad range of baseline risks for FL. We recommend the use of prophylactic antibiotics in patients at risk for FL during chemotherapy.
Prophylactic treatment with levofloxacin is an effective and well-tolerated way of preventing febrile episodes and other relevant infection-related outcomes in patients with cancer and profound and protracted neutropenia. The long-term effect of this intervention on microbial resistance in the community is not known.
The use of G-CSF as an adjunct to chemotherapy in patients with small-cell cancer of the lung was well tolerated and led to reductions in the incidence of fever with neutropenia and culture-confirmed infections; in the incidence, duration, and severity of grade IV neutropenia; and in the total number of days of treatment with intravenous antibiotics and days of hospitalization.
Among patients receiving chemotherapy for solid tumors or lymphoma, the prophylactic use of levofloxacin reduces the incidence of fever, probable infection, and hospitalization.
Antibiotic prophylaxis for neutropenic patients undergoing cytotoxic therapy reduces mortality. Mortality was substantially reduced when analysis was limited to fluoroquinolones. Antibiotic prophylaxis, preferably with a fluoroquinolone, should be considered for neutropenic patients.
Patients treated with quinolones have a non-significant increase in colonization by quinolone-resistant bacteria. There is no difference in the number of infections caused by pathogens resistant to quinolones. As quinolone prophylaxis reduces the risk of death in neutropenic patients, the risk associated with colonization and infections caused by quinolone-resistant organisms does not outweigh the gain. Future trials should focus on better documentation of infections caused by resistant organisms.
A single subcutaneous injection of pegfilgrastim 100 microg/kg provided neutrophil support and a safety profile comparable to daily subcutaneous injections of filgrastim during multiple chemotherapy cycles.
Prophylactic CSFs may have little or no effect on mortality but do decrease rates of infection in patients receiving cancer chemotherapy or those undergoing SCT.
Prophylactic CSFs significantly decrease the incidence of FN and the durations of severe neutropenia, hospitalization, and antibiotic use in pediatric cancer patients, but they do not significantly decrease documented infections.
Using either a DIEP or SIEA flap as the autologous tissue, delayed breast reconstruction is as cost-effective as immediate reconstruction.
The women who underwent no breast reconstruction suffered more emotional problems than those who underwent a reconstruction procedure. In general, all groups reported a postprocedure preference for IBR in their questionnaire answers. The aesthetic results achieved by IBR seem to be those best accepted.
Existing research into the psychological aspects of breast reconstruction is limited and not sufficiently conclusive to inform changes to policy and the provision of care. More methodologically rigorous research is needed.
In patients who will receive or have already received postmastectomy radiation therapy, the optimal approach is delayed autologous tissue reconstruction after postmastectomy radiation therapy. If postmastectomy radiation therapy appears likely but may not be required, delayed-immediate reconstruction may be considered.
This series showed a significantly higher rate of severe CC with postoperative RT. This finding has important clinical implications, when counselling patients for immediate breast reconstruction.
The participation rates suggested that a TY program is feasible for patients with cancer and that such a program significantly improves sleep-related outcomes. However, there were no significant differences between groups for the other outcomes.
Results from the emerging literature on yoga and cancer provide preliminary support for the feasibility and efficacy of yoga interventions for cancer patients, although controlled trials are lacking. Further research is required to determine the reliability of these effects and to identify their underlying mechanisms.
Exercise with prophylactic EPO therapy reduces the number of RBC transfusions and attempts at stem cell collection for patients receiving intensive treatment for multiple myeloma.
Although limited by sample size, these pilot data suggest potential benefit of RY on emotional outcomes and fatigue in cancer patients. This study demonstrates that a RY intervention is feasible for women with breast cancer; implications for study design and implementation are noted with an emphasis on program adoption and participant adherence.
Yoga holds promise as an intervention for adolescents with IBS.
The BFI is a reliable instrument that allows for the rapid assessment of fatigue level in cancer patients and identifies those patients with severe fatigue.
Use of CAM, particularly biologically based CAM therapies, is common and is more likely to be used by those with chronic diseases.
The IES is a useful measure of stress reactions after a range of traumatic events, and it is valuable for detecting individuals who require treatment.
We have shown that MMF used with a calcineurin inhibitor does indeed confer a clinical benefit over AZA by reducing the risk of acute rejection and also possibly reducing graft loss. This effect is independent of whether MMF is used in combination with sandimmune, neoral or tacrolimus.
The relationship between MPA levels and rejection cannot be clearly defined based on available evidence. Preliminary evidence suggests limited sampling strategies may be a better predictor of rejection than a single-time point model. Further studies must be conducted on the relationship between the MPA area under the curve, the risk of rejection, and adverse effects to appreciate the value of such strategies.
Achieving complete cure in asymptomatic colorectal cancer patients with unresectable synchronous liver-only metastases appears to be mostly the result of shrinkage and resection of hepatic metastases. In patients with good performance status and limited liver involvement, bowel tumor resection appears to be the best treatment option for this purpose.
The incidence of major intestinal complications in patients with unresected colorectal cancer and synchronous metastases who receive initial treatment with chemotherapy is low. Chemotherapy may be successfully used as initial treatment for such patients with no increased risk of most major intestinal complications compared with patients who have undergone initial resection of the primary tumour.
Surgical resection and response of the primary tumour to chemotherapy may be associated with improved survival, but proximal or multiple cancers predict poor outcome in patients with asymptomatic CRC and unresectable metastatic disease.
Palliative resection is associated with a particularly unfavorable outcome in rectal cancer patients presenting with a locally advanced tumor (pT4, expected R2 resection) or an extensive comorbidity, and in all CRC patients who show a hepatic tumor load >50%. For such patients, surgery might be contraindicated unless the tumor is immediately life-threatening.
For patients who present with distant metastases and resectable primary rectal cancers, radical surgery without radiotherapy can provide durable local control with acceptable morbidity. The extent of metastatic disease and the response to chemotherapy are the major determinants of survival. Effective systemic chemotherapy should be given high priority in the treatment of stage IV rectal cancer.
Patients with liver metastases synchronous with colorectal cancer with T4 primary tumor, metastasis infiltration of neighboring structures, and especially with more than three metastases should receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy before liver resection.
The perioperative mortality rate for perforated colorectal cancer at the site of the cancer was 9%; for obstructive colorectal cancer, 5%. Perioperative mortality was much greater for perforations of the colon and rectum occurring proximal to the cancer (31%). Survival was worse (P < .001) for patients with obstruction (33%) or perforation proximal to the cancer (33%). The site of perforation did not appear to impact the 5-year survival, although the numbers are relatively small.
A single-stage operation consisting of SEMS placement followed by laparoscopic surgery seems to be a feasible and safe treatment option for obstructive left colorectal cancer.
Patients with unilateral metastasis and Dukes' A for the primary tumor benefit most from the resection of pulmonary metastasis from colorectal carcinoma. Further, the number of metastases, prethoracotomy CEA level, and hilar or mediastinal lymph-node involvement should be considered to determine the operative indication. Finally, periodic follow-up examinations for thoracic recurrence should be carefully performed as these patients may have a heightened risk of requiring a repeat thoracotomy.
Candidates for surgical treatment for lung or liver metastases from CRC may be an acceptable for the same valuable approach, even if characteristic differences were observed in each group.
Subgroup analysis provided criteria for the selection of patients for resection of lung metastases from colorectal cancer and differentiated between those at high and low risk of early tumor progression.
The addition of cetuximab to capecitabine, oxaliplatin and bevacizumab in the first-line treatment of ACC appears to be safe and feasible. No excessive or unexpected toxicity in the cetuximab-containing treatment arm was observed.
The results of this large, multicenter, phase 3 study indicate that the novel combination of cetuximab with docetaxel and carboplatin demonstrate modest anticancer activity for patients with advanced and metastatic NSCLC and has an acceptable toxicity profile.
Cetuximab in combination with docetaxel was well tolerated. The response rate supports more definitive evaluation of this combination in the second-line setting.
The results of our MAL, favoring chemotherapy, are in line with those of a MAP recently published. However, they have to be considered in the light of their actual clinical relevance and of the balance between quality of life, toxicity, and costs of chemotherapy and best supportive care.
None of four chemotherapy regimens offered a significant advantage over the others in the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
In the studies reviewed, the anti-VEGF antibody bevacizumab added to chemotherapy and the anti-EGFR antibodies cetuximab and panitumumab as monotherapy or added to chemotherapy were associated with consistent efficacy in the treatment of mCRC, although the absolute benefit differed among trials. The efficacy of anti-EGFR antibodies was limited to patients with KRAS wild-type tumors. Given the lack of benefit when anti-VEGF and anti-EGFR antibodies were combined, such regimens should not be used in clinical practice.
PCS provides an acceptable alternative to sedation with midazolam and pethidine with the advantage of significantly faster recovery times, which are of relevance in the outpatient setting.
Patient-controlled administration of propofol and alfentanil for colonoscopy may provide a better margin of safety than conventional administration of midazolam and meperidine and results in a higher level of patient satisfaction and shorter recovery.
Remifentanil proved efficient in reducing pain during colonoscopy. Emergence times were shorter and the recovery of cognitive function was faster with remifentanil compared with propofol. Remifentanil provided a smoother haemodynamic profile than propofol; however, the frequent occurrence of remifentanil-induced hypoventilation requires the cautious administration of this agent.
Our data suggest that the synergistic sedation with a low dose of midazolam combined with propofol was superior to a standard combination of midazolam and the opioid pethidine for colonoscopies as far as the patient comfort and recovery times are concerned.
Low-dose midazolam combined with propofol is an effective and economic alternative to benzodiazepine-based analgosedation. It is associated with a high degree of patient comfort and rapid recovery times, and has a potential cost benefit concerning nursing care and bed facilities.
Patient-controlled sedation is an effective alternative to premedication with narcotic/benzodiazepine combinations during colonoscopy.
Nurse-administered propofol resulted in several advantages for outpatient colonoscopy compared with midazolam plus fentanyl, but did not improve patient satisfaction.
Our results showed that propofol provided good sedation with excellent pain control, a short recovery time and no significant haemodynamic side effects.
Current recommendations that patients should refrain from driving and unescorted use of public transport for 24 h after sedation may need to be reconsidered in patients who receive propofol sedation.
The findings indicate that concerns that relate specifically to colonoscopy, including anticipated pain, influence acceptability of the procedure. However, the experience of a colonoscopy does not lead to improved test acceptance, despite decreases in procedural anxiety and pain. Patients' preprocedural views of the test are most important and should be addressed directly to potentially improve participation in colonoscopy.
Electronic surveys allow for rapid distribution and data collection but suffer from a limited response rate. The survey suggests that unsedated endoscopy has limited acceptance in the United States, and, without a major intervention that affects endoscopists' attitudes, its use is not likely to increase significantly. Unsedated endoscopy will not have a great impact on endoscopic screening. In contrast, propofol sedation has already gained acceptance in the community, and the routine use of propofol in endoscopy units will likely increase in the future.
Patient-controlled sedation appears to be safer than intravenous sedation, with comparable effectiveness and acceptance, in elderly patients undergoing elective outpatient colonoscopy.
Music can decrease the dose of sedative medication required for colonoscopy. The combination of music and patient-controlled sedation was the best-accepted mode of sedation among 3 groups.
Moderate sedation provides a high level of physician and patient satisfaction and a low risk of serious adverse events with all currently available agents. Midazolam-based regimens have longer sedation and recovery times than does propofol.
Trained nurses and endoscopists can administer propofol safely for endoscopic procedures. Nurse-administered propofol sedation is one potential solution to the high cost associated with anesthetist-delivered sedation for endoscopy.
Combined administration of remifentanil and propofol for colonoscopy provides sufficient analgesia, satisfactory hemodynamic stability, minor respiratory depression, and rapid recovery, and allows patients to be discharged approximately 15 minutes after the procedure.
Our data suggest that, on average, American patients place the highest valuation on experiencing no pain during colonoscopy, waking up promptly after the procedure, and for going to sleep and not waking up until the procedure is over. However, unsedated colonoscopy does appeal to a small minority of patients, primarily men with graduate educations.
CHVP plus interferon over 18 months was associated with a better outcome, even though the combination of interferon plus chemotherapy was less well tolerated than fludarabine.
The hypodense, roughly spherical cysts clearly demonstrated clinically significant mass effect, and required reoperation despite treatment with high-dose corticosteroids. Neurosurgeons should be alert to the possibility of tumor bed cyst formation in patients treated with interstitial BCNU wafers.
This study showed that adjuvant CHOP chemotherapy significantly improves RFS in patients with Stage I intermediate-grade NHL who achieve a CR after regional-field RT. The chemotherapeutic regimen favorably affected their probability of survival.
Less than half of the patients with FL3 and a diffuse component of < or =50% treated with anthracycline-based combination chemotherapy will relapse and relapses are uncommon after 6 years. Older patients should be offered the same aggressive chemotherapy as younger patients.
Before applying limited treatment for EGC, a surgeon should consider the risk factors of underestimation of T stage with EGD or S-CT.
A 15 MHz ultrasound catheter probe is most useful for determining depth of invasion when the tumor is histologically differentiated and endoscopically of the small elevated type early gastric cancer, but it is unreliable in the diagnosis of metastatic lymph nodes.
MRI was the best method in the assessment of gastric wall infiltration. EUS was superior to MRI for T1 staging, and in the assessment of lymph node infiltration.
EUS accurately predicts pathologic stage. In addition, EUS is predictive of outcomes after complete gross resection without neoadjuvant treatment for GEJ adenocarcinoma and identifies a high-risk population that might benefit from preoperative therapy.
The concordance between EUS and pathologic results was lower than expected for individual T and N stages. Patients with lesions <or=T2 had a significantly better prognosis than patients with more advanced lesions. Individual EUS N stage has limited value in preoperative risk assessment. Combined assessment of serosal invasion and nodal positivity on EUS identifies 77% of patients at risk for death from gastric cancer after curative resection.
Three-dimensional multidetector row CT, along with virtual gastroscopy is a promising method for pre-operative evaluation of gastric cancer.
Even in daily routine practice, differentiation of locally limited and advanced disease with EUS can be performed with high sensitivity and good specificity. Therefore, EUS is an essential part of the diagnostic procedure in patients with gastric cancer.
From these data it appears that in these diseases EUS has demonstrated specific ultrasonographic features that allow correct diagnosis and staging in the majority of patients. In difficult cases EUS may help to achieve the correct diagnosis. EUS also appear to be a useful tool for staging of gastric cancer and lymphoma. It shows not only tumor depth and local spread but also the passage from a pathologic to a normal wall and lymph node metastasis. With this accurate noninvasive staging procedure, in the near future many patients will no longer undergo exploratory laparotomy for surgical staging. Thanks to EUS, the choice of conservative or surgical treatment can be strongly affected. In case of surgery, EUS can orient the kind of surgical approach. Moreover, the use of EUS for evaluation of therapy during follow-up will probably become of major importance.
Endoscopic ultrasound is a valuable diagnostic tool in the local staging of gastric cancers and demonstration of ascites. Although the surgical treatment of gastric cancers with lymph node metastasis, ascites, or poor differentiation had poorer survival rate, only lymph node metastasis was proved to be a significant prognostic predictor in multivariate analysis.
EUS does not substantially impact on pretreatment T staging of patients with early gastric cancer compared with conventional endoscopy. Therefore, EUS may not be necessary routinely, and conventional endoscopy may be sufficient for determining the optimal therapeutic strategy, especially in relation to endoscopic resection for early gastric cancer.
Preoperative diagnostics were able to accurately predict resectability in almost 90% of patients which is substantially more than the corresponding results of both the EGGCS and the GGCS. In the future, more wide-spread use of EUS will play an increasing role as stage-dependent differentiation of therapeutic concepts gains acceptance. However, diagnostic accuracy of EUS needs to be improved. Our early postoperative outcome data demonstrate that the quality standard of gastric cancer care established by the EGGCS is being fulfilled at our institution in spite of distinct characteristics placing our patients at higher surgical risk. Besides being a valuable instrument of internal quality control, our study provides a good base for comparison with ongoing analyses on future developments in gastric cancer therapy.
Endoscopic resection is indicated in intramucosal gastric cancer lesions showing differentiated histology, no ulcer fibrosis and a diameter of less than 2 cm. EUS may additionally be used for further evaluation in these patients.
EUS with miniprobes can be performed as single-step procedure during diagnostic endoscopy. The 12.5 MHz transducer provides high-resolution imaging and enables accurate staging of tumors with limited infiltration depth.
Miniprobe EUS is a reliable method for validating treatment decisions for patients undergoing minimally invasive procedures for gastric and colonic tumors. This method is particularly valuable in the management of colon cancer, because endoscopic and laparoscopic resections can be offered to selected patients as an alternative to open surgery.
For the preoperative assessment of individual T and N staging in patients with gastric cancer, the accuracy of MDCT was close to that of EUS. Both EUS and MDCT are useful complementary modalities for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer.
EGC with undifferentiated histopathologic features or large tumor size is more frequently associated with an incorrect diagnosis in tumor invasion depth by EUS. EGC with a size larger than 3 cm and poorly differentiated histologic diagnosis should be cautiously considered in the decision on treatment modality by pretreatment EUS staging.
The accuracy of EUS for the lesions with the extended indications was lower than that for the lesions with the accepted indications. In particular, lesions with ulceration and minute submucosal invasion should be carefully considered prior to endoscopic treatment by pretreatment EUS staging.
Whereas EUS has a high sensitivity in the diagnosis of locally advanced gastric cancer, endosonographic overstaging of T2 cancers appears to be a frequent problem. EUS stratification between local (T1 /2N0) and advanced (T3/4 or any N + ) tumors would thus result in incorrect assignment to neoadjuvant treatment in half of cases.
From the data it appears that EUS has proven to be valuable in correctly staging most of the patients. EUS shows not only tumor depth and local spread but also the passage from a pathologic to a normal wall and lymph node metastasis. EUS appears to represent an important advance in the staging and follow-up of patients with gastric cancer. Instruments and techniques will continue to evolve, but the next level of research should be designed to show that the improved staging provided by EUS has clinical utility and can affect patient outcome. It is noteworthy that the highest accuracy of EUS has been shown in those conditions (uT1 and uT3-4) which currently are under consideration for a therapeutic approach that differs from the standard one.
We believe that EUS is a reliable method, superior to all diagnostic tools, in the evaluation of locoregional extension of gastric cancer.
EUS is useful for accurately determining the depth of invasion of gastric cancer. When there are no endoscopically determined ulcerous changes, endoscopic treatment should be considered for EUS-M and EUS-M/SM border lesions, and EUS-SM lesions should be treated surgically.
Mp cancer should be considered an intermediate-stage cancer. Surgery with level 2 lymph node dissection should provide a cure rate similar to that for early cancer.
Contrast-enhanced EUS is a noninvasive, useful diagnostic method for assessment of the depth of invasion of esophageal and gastric carcinomas.
Restaging by EUS and CT after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with LAGC was found to be inaccurate. However, T and/or N downstaging by EUS was found to be correlated with better OS and RFS. Thus, downstaging by EUS may be a useful clinical parameter with which to predict a better outcome for LAGC patients.
EUS seems to be essential in differentiating pT1 from advanced tumors. It shows an accuracy in defining the Siewert type of 72.5%, with some difficulties in distinguishing from type II and III tumors.
EUS is more accurate than HCT in the T-staging of gastric carcinoma. Both methods are comparable for N-staging, when this is done according to the older, fourth edition of the TNM classification. If the fifth edition is used, EUS is less accurate than HCT.
According to our results the accuracy of EUS staging matched pathohistological staging with regard to tumor infiltration and lymph node stage in 68% and 57% of cases respectively. Underestimation of the final T2 and T3 stages as T1 stage by EUS presents a problem regarding the consistency of EUS examination at our institution, particularly with respect to individual treatment for early gastric cancer. The present uncertainty in EUS stage reliability makes it necessary to have a strategy of radical resection with D2 lymphadenectomy in patients within EUS stages T1-T3, with additional CT examinations in more advanced EUS stages in order to visualize the circumstances of tumor growth. Nevertheless, EUS provides an opportunity for the surgeon to gain more insight into the loco-regional circumstances of the gastric tumor process. For development of individual modes of treatment based on EUS staging, a more reliable assessment of EUS stage is mandatory.
Endoscopic ultrasonography is a useful technique for loco-regional staging of gastric adenocarcinoma, which may have important implications in the therapeutic management of these patients.
For gastric cardia cancer, the linear-array echoendoscope yielded satisfactory results with respect to depth of invasion, lymph node involvement, and esophageal invasion evaluation. The information obtained is useful to the performance of stage-specific treatment.
Endoscopic ultrasonography has a high accuracy rate in staging gastric carcinoma but still has its limitations in evaluating regional lymph node metastasis, despite using a new generation video-endoscopic ultrasonography.
Generally accepted standards for the therapy of advanced gastric carcinomas do not exist. In cases where the therapeutic strategy is surgical exploration, no preoperative staging is necessary. In cases with differentiated treatment strategies, the accuracy of EUS is not sufficient for the selection of patients for endoscopic resection. Its accuracy for submucosal cancer invasion and for the detection of lymph node metastases needs to be further enhanced. If only multimodal therapy is considered, EUS staging seems to be absolutely mandatory. Patients classified preoperatively as T1 to T3 can be operated on primarily with sufficient security. In patients where radical resection of the tumor seems doubtful, we recommend that a diagnostic laparoscopy be performed to confirm the diagnosis.
EUS appears to be useful in combination with conventional endoscopy for staging depth of invasion of early gastric cancer. In particular, the two techniques in tandem may accurately predict that a lesion is limited to the mucosa, and EUS may be useful to overcome the potential for understaging by conventional endoscopy, particularly in the gastric body.
Endoscopic ultrasonography is expected to compensate for the understaging of lesions with submucosal invasion that are endoscopically staged as mucosal cancer.
High-frequency ultrasound probe is a useful tool for accurately determining the depth of invasion of early gastric cancer when its limitations are understood.
DCUS offers a noninvasive approach for the staging of gastric cancer. DCUS was comparable to EUS in tumor depth evaluation but offered an advantage in lymph node detection.
In clinical routine examinations of adenocarcinomas of the stomach and the distal esophagus, the accuracy of EUS is not as good as the excellent results in the past--mostly obtained under study conditions--may suggest.
EUS-FNA is superior to LN echofeatures in evaluating lymphadenopathy. Endosonographic LN features alone are particularly unreliable in the mediastinum, necessitating tissue confirmation. EUS-FNA can safely, reliably, and accurately sample mediastinal and peri-intestinal LNs obviating the need for more invasive testing or surgical intervention.
X-ray of the upper digestive tract and chest and abdomen CT scan are useful in preliminary evaluation of ECC. Endoscopy is particularly indicated for evaluating tumour morphology, taking biopsies for a histological diagnosis and the early diagnosis of anastomotic recurrences. EUS is indicated mainly for evaluating T stage before and after chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. CT-PET is extremely useful in identifying small mediastinal metastatic lymph nodes (N1) or extrathoracic lymph nodes (M1) and hepatic metastases (</=1 cm), which may escape multislice CT. PET alone is useful for identifying residual or recurrent tumour in the esophageal wall when an endoprosthesis is in place.
In the preoperative assessment of the invasion stage of gastric carcinoma (TNM), ultrasound endoscopy is the elective imagistic investigation for predicting the grade of invasion of the gastric wall while CT examination is a more accurate assessment of lymph node extension and metastases, the precise definition of invasion stage being only the result of histopathological examination on surgical specimens.
EUS is more accurate than CT in the preoperative staging of upper gastrointestinal malignancies.
Given the frequent discrepancy between the endoscopic and pathologic location of the GEJ and the common problem of advanced tumors obscuring the landmarks used in the assessment of the Siewert classification, its usefulness is limited. The overall accuracy for EUS and CT in predicting the N-stage per station was moderate.
The accuracy of EUS for staging esophageal cancer is lower in tumors larger than 5 cm and in esophagogastric junction tumors than in tumors 5 cm in size or less and in esophageal tumors. These findings should be considered when treatment decisions are being taken.
EUS with a curved-array transducer provides high accuracy rates in staging of esophageal carcinoma. Evaluation of gastric cancer with this technique appears to be more difficult than with radial transducers. A major advantage of the linear transducer is the ability to perform EUS-guided biopsies of submucosal or extamural lesions.
ESD might be considered an alternative treatment modality in carefully selected cases of undifferentiated EGC.
Endosonography is the most accurate staging modality for overall preoperative staging of oesophageal and cardial tumours. Endoscopic macroscopic staging allows a reasonably accurate assessment of the T category.
FDG-PET reliably predicted response in LAGEC. FDG-PET measurements using Patlak analysis or the more clinical applicable SKM and SUV-BW were acceptable alternatives to NLR.
TA-EUS and L-EUS provide similar results of T staging of UGI malignancies. However, the number of abnormal lymph nodes detected by TA-EUS was more than by L-EUS. These findings suggest that radial or transverse-array EUS imaging should be the primary method for staging of UGI malignancies.
The accuracy of EUS for T staging in clinical practice appears to be lower than has previously been reported. In addition, blinded analysis produced significantly poorer results, which improved when another test was added. It may be speculated that better results with routine EUS obtained in a clinical setting are due to additional sources of information.
Patients with early gastric carcinoma may be candidates for endoscopic mucosal resection if their tumor is confined to the mucosa and measures < 1 cm in greatest dimension. Other limited resections including D1 gastrectomy or standard D2 gastrectomy based on tumor depth and size are appropriate. Based on the current study findings, the authors propose a useful algorithm for managing such patients.
Digital quantitative analysis is useful and widely applicable to clinicopathologic evaluation. The diagnostic sensitivity of lymph node metastasis in patients with early gastric carcinoma in the current study was very low with preoperative and intraoperative assessments because lymph node metastases were small and showed subtle histologic changes of pericancerous fibrosis.
When we decide the treatment modality considering the clinical depth of invasion by EUS, the possibility of discordance with pathologic results should be considered for the lesions located in the upper third of the stomach and with a depressed morphology.
Heterogeneity in clinical biology of LGC is best reflected after CTRT in presurgical and postsurgical pathologic stages rather than by the baseline stage. Correlation of outcome with presurgical staging may facilitate strategies to individualize therapy for LGC.
In advanced gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, the high frequency of nodal metastases and the related unfavorable long-term outcome achieved by means of surgical intervention alone are indicative of the need for aggressive multimodal treatment along with surgical intervention to improve long-term results.
This study suggested that laparoscopy can be avoided in patients with EUS early-stage gastric cancer. Patients with more advanced disease are at higher risk of occult peritoneal disease and require laparoscopy. Validation with greater numbers is warranted, but, based on these data, we propose a new staging algorithm allowing EUS low-risk patients to proceed directly to resection.
When compared with HPE, HGS was found to be more accurate than helical CT for assessment of T and N staging. Sonographic and helical CT were equally accurate for the assessment of M stage.
Although this study is small it has confirmed that CT, EUS and LapUS act in a complimentary manner to provide the most complete preoperative staging for patients with oesophago-gastric cancer.
Less than one-quarter of patients with GAC underwent preoperative EUS staging. In patients who did not receive preoperative chemotherapy, tumor stage on EUS often did not correlate with T stage and N stage on final pathologic analysis. Endoscopic ultrasound should be combined with other staging modalities to optimize staging of patients with GAC.
Predictive models generate important information allowing a logical evolution in the surgical and pathologic understanding and therapy for gastric cancer. However, a greater understanding of the molecular changes associated with gastric cancer is needed to guide surgical and medical therapy.
This risk assessment chart shows individuals their pretreatment curability assessment with successful ESD and may be an educational tool for trainees or a decision-making tool.
Using MPR images enables more accurate preoperative T staging of gastric cancer, but not for N staging in either classification system.
Nodal staging in the 13th JCGC staging system correlates with histological examination better than the 6th TNM and 14th JCGC/7th TNM staging systems. The optimal preoperative nodal staging using the current 14th JCGC/7th TNM staging system on MDCT needs further investigation.
EUS is highly effective for discrimination of stages T1 and T2 from stages T3 and T4 for primary gastro-oesophageal carcinomas. The failure rate of EUS from non-traversability of a stenotic cancer may be a limitation in some patient groups.
Our results support the use of EUS for the locoregional staging of gastric cancer, which can affect the therapeutic management of these patients. However, clinicians must be aware of the performance limits of this staging tool.
These data highlight the utilization of EUS that did not necessarily follow established guidelines. Further research is essential to evaluate obstacles to utilization of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspirate.
The agreement between pre-operative TNM staging by imaging scans and post-operative staging by pathology is not perfect and may affect treatment decisions. Operator dependence and heterogeneity of data may account for the variations in staging performance. Physicians should consider this discrepancy when creating their treatment plans.
Early-stage penile carcinomas can be effectively treated with the organ-sparing strategy described here. Because local recurrences occur in a minority of patients and can be safely treated, organ preservation is compatible with local disease control. Reductive systemic chemotherapy in selected exophytic cases broadens the indication for our conservative approach.
The overall incidence of primary, malignant penile cancer in the United States has decreased, and these rates varied by race/ethnicity. Incidence rates increased with increasing age at diagnosis, and the incidence of regional stage disease increased over time, while incidence of unknown grade primary, malignant penile cancer decreased over the last 30 years.
These data suggest that HPV status does not influence prognosis in invasive penile carcinoma.
In a minority of patients with anatomically suitable penile cancer conservative surgical techniques are safe and provide equal tumor control compared to conventional resections. The anatomical situation and tumor characteristics should dictate the choice of treatment for the primary penile lesion. Inguinal lymph nodes should be managed by appropriately established guidelines but should not influence the extent of primary penile lesion resection.
The clinical stage of groin lymph nodes and pathological findings of penectomy specimens allowed us to generate a nomogram to predict the probability of metastatic lymph node involvement in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the penis. The statistical model showed an excellent ability to identify the patients with lymph node metastases and good calibration.
Both the Solsona and EAU risk group assessment had low prognostic accuracy, although the Solsona risk groups performed slightly better. The nomograms designed to predict the risk of lymph node metastases showed and cancer-specific survival had good prognostic accuracy but their external validation is still lacking.
Histologic grade and LVI are independent prognostic factors for occult metastasis in penile carcinoma. Although both predictors are incorporated into the current EAU guidelines, the stratification of patients needing a lymph node dissection is inaccurate. Approximately 77% of high-risk patients (188 of 245) would have had a negative bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy. For the time being, DSNB is considered a more suitable staging method than EAU risk stratification for an accurate determination of patients who require lymph node dissection.
TGR is a successful surgical alternative for managing intractable premalignant penile lesions. It has the potential to restore normal anatomy and minimize the risk of local recurrence by replacing diseased epithelium and subepithelial tissues with healthy extra-genital skin.
The false-negative and complication rates of DSNB have decreased since the procedure was modified. The current procedure has false-negative and complication rates of 4.8% and 5.7%, respectively. DSNB has matured into a reliable and safe method for assessing status of lymph nodes in cN0 penile carcinoma patients.
Patients with only 1 or 2 inguinal lymph nodes involved without extracapsular growth and no poorly differentiated tumor within these nodes are at low risk of pelvic lymph node involvement and have a good prognosis with a 5-year survival rate of approximately 90%. Pelvic lymph node dissection seems to be unnecessary in these cases.
Lymphovascular embolization and absent koilocytosis were independent prognostic factors for the risk of lymphatic metastasis. Patients with koilocytosis and without lymphovascular embolization had better 5-year survival.
In selected cases of benign, premalignant or malignant penile lesions, glans resurfacing or reconstruction can ensure a normal appearing and functional penis, without jeopardizing cancer control.
Assertions that smegma is carcinogenic cannot be justified on scientific grounds.
Treatment with IFN-gamma 1b in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel does not have a role in the first-line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer.
We are the first to report dramatic changes in rates of treatment for diverticulitis in the United States. The causes of this emerging disease pattern are unknown, but certainly deserve further investigation. For patients undergoing surgery for acute diverticulitis, there was little change over time in the likelihood of a primary anastomosis.
Admission rates for diverticular disease increased over the study period. The proportion of patients who underwent operation increased, but in-patient and population mortality rates remained unchanged. With an ageing population, diverticular disease will become an increasingly important clinical problem in England.
LAC is more effective than OC in the treatment of colon cancer.
With advancing surgical technology and technique, truly minimally invasive surgical procedures are feasible. Understanding of NOTES can therefore extend beyond its experimental application into contemporary surgical practice.
Our study indicates that a significant number of OKCs show clonal loss of heterozygosity of common tumor suppressor genes. The finding of clonal deletion mutations of genomic DNA in these cysts supports the hypothesis that they are neoplastic rather than developmental in origin.
The majority of OKCs harbour chromosomal abnormalities. This finding supports the supposition that OKCs are neoplastic. Furthermore, OKCs harbour allelic loss at some of the same loci identified in squamous cell carcinoma. This may aid in explaining the rare occurrence of squamous cell carcinoma arising in OKC.
Our data show methylation of the promoter of P21 gene in OKCs. In addition, methylation of the P27 and RB1 genes are commonly found in dental follicles. Further studies are necessary to determine the functional relevance of these alterations.
In this study of NMIBC, the immediate single instillation of GEM 2000 mg/100 ml of saline after TUR was not superior to PBO in terms of RFS. Rigid continuous irrigation and improved TUR/cystoscopy techniques may have contributed to the high RFS in both groups.
The results of our study have shown that gemcitabine has a tumor ablative effect when given intravesically for bladder cancer. A single dose seemed ineffective, and the multiple dosing regimens seemed effective. The side effects were generally mild.
Gemcitabine might represent a second-line treatment option after BCG failure in high-risk non-muscle-invasive BC patients.
Gemcitabine is significantly inferior to BCG, but given its favourable toxicity profile, it may be useful for patients intolerant to or otherwise unable to receive BCG.
The results of our study have confirmed the good tolerability and 1 year efficacy of intravesical gemcitabine. The treatment schedule proposed resulted in high patient compliance, and the results can be compared with the results of studies using other intravesical treatments.
We believe that the severe side effects requiring treatment interruption are attributable primarily to increased sensitivity in patients with multi-treated bladders. In our experience, the side effects responsible for suspension occurred at the start of treatment in 7 cases out of 8. Our study demonstrates the safety of intravesical gemcitabine in patients with recurrent and multi-treated superficial TCC of the bladder.
Patients with high grade Ta tumors have a lifelong risk of disease stage progression and death from bladder cancer similar to those with T1 tumors.
Neither tumor stage nor dysplasia influenced tumor evolution. Multiple tumors, tumor greater than 3 cm. and intravesical BCG instillations were risk factors of recurrence and progression. Carcinoma in situ influenced recurrence, progression and disease specific mortality. Finally, the main predictor of progression and mortality was grade 3 disease.
Our experience has shown the good tolerability and potential efficacy of intravesical gemcitabine against recurrent transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Gemcitabine might be proposed, if our results are confirmed by larger studies, as a second-line therapy in patients who cannot tolerate more aggressive intravesical therapy.
Meanwhile the adverse clinical impact of DHFR overexpression appeared to be closely related to the relevance of MTX in the chemotherapeutic protocol, that of C-MYC overexpression was more general and not strictly MTX related. The assessment of C-MYC and DHFR at diagnosis, together with that of other known prognostic markers, can be considered for an early identification of subgroups of OS patients with higher risk of adverse outcome.
The authors concluded that the histologic subtype of primary central high-grade osteosarcoma of the extremity was strictly correlated with histologic response to chemotherapy and probably, as a consequence, also with prognosis. Further studies are needed to establish whether these results justify a specific therapeutic approach based on the histologic subtype of the tumor.
The dose intensity of MTX seems to be a major factor in predicting the outcome of patients with localized high grade osteosarcoma.
In an overall setting of intensive multidrug treatment of osteosarcoma, we could not prove that higher dose intensities correlate with better outcomes.
Planned intensification of chemotherapy with cisplatin and doxorubicin increased received dose intensity and resulted in a statistically significant increase in favorable histologic response rate, but not in increased progression-free or overall survival. Our results call into question the use of histologic response as a surrogate outcome measure in trials of this disease.
The application of containment elastic orthosis and manual lymphatic drainage contribute to prevent secondary lymphoedema after breast cancer surgery, improving the quality of life in these patients.
With this early exercise intervention after breast cancer diagnosis, a significant improvement was achieved in physical function, with no decline in health-related quality of life or detrimental effect on arm volume.
Lymphedema is a common condition affecting cancer survivors with various malignancies. The incidence of lymphedema is related to the type and extent of treatment, anatomic location, heterogeneity of assessment methods, and length of follow-up.
Breast cancer survivors who received information about BCRL had significantly reduced symptoms and increased knowledge about BCRL. In clinical practice, breast cancer survivors should be engaged in supportive dialogues so they can be educated about ways to reduce their risk of developing BCRL.
In this population of 600 women who underwent SLNB, there is no correlation between number of LNs removed and change in upper extremity circumference or incidence of lymphedema. These data suggest that other factors, such as the global disruption of the lymphatic channels during axillary lymph node dissection, play a larger role in development of lymphedema than does the number of LNs removed.
In a large cohort study, BCRL occurs among a substantial proportion of early breast cancer survivors. Our findings agree with those of previous studies on the increased risk of BCRL with removal of lymph nodes and being obese, but they point to a differential risk according to race or ethnicity.
Fear of lymphedema and receipt of arm care advice motivated women's intention to avoid strenuous arm activity.
Lymphoedema is recognised as an unpleasant and uncomfortable consequence of breast cancer-related treatment. Patients should be advised of the risk of lymphoedema and educated to detect its symptoms. Relevance to clinical practice. It is of importance to recognise breast cancer patients at risk for lymphoedema. Nurses should inform patients with breast cancer about their risk for lymphoedema and guidelines to reduce the risk and to emphasise self-care activities for prevention.
Lymphedema occurs among a substantial proportion of young breast cancer survivors. Weight management may be a potential intervention for those at greatest risk of lymphedema to maintain optimal health-related quality of life among survivors.
Pre-treatment BMI may be a risk factor for lymphedema. Weight gain post-treatment may not be. Further research is warranted.
The findings neither support nor refute current recommendations made to women with breast cancer, but rather raise questions about the value of this recovery advice. The study also provides novel findings regarding relationships between certain behaviours and QoL among breast cancer survivors.
A short trial of compression garments effectively treated subclinical LE.
Mastectomy, extent of axillary dissection, radiation therapy, and presence of positive nodes increased risk of developing arm lymphedema after breast cancer. These factors likely reflected lymph node removal, which most surgeons consider to be the largest risk factor for lymphedema. Future studies should consider examining sentinel node biopsy versus no dissection with a long follow-up time post surgery to see if there is a benefit of decreased lymphedema compared with no dissection.
In this cohort of women with breast cancer, women with lymphoedema after surgery for breast cancer had significantly worse overall emotional well-being and adjustment to life compared to women without lymphoedema.
Four years postoperatively, 14% of a contemporary, population-based cohort of elderly breast cancer survivors had self-reported lymphedema. In this group of predominantly community-based surgeons, the number of lymph nodes removed is more predictive of lymphedema rather than whether SLNB or ALND was performed. As more women with breast cancer undergo only SLNB, it is essential that they still be counseled on their risk for lymphedema.
Intensive instruction in BSE did not reduce mortality from breast cancer. Programs to encourage BSE in the absence of mammography would be unlikely to reduce mortality from breast cancer. Women who choose to practice BSE should be informed that its efficacy is unproven and that it may increase their chances of having a benign breast biopsy.
Breast self-examination has not led to a reduction in mortality from breast cancer in this study cohort in the first several years since the trial began. A shift toward the diagnosis of disease at a less advanced stage in women given instruction has also not been demonstrated. Longer follow-up of participants in this trial is required before final assessment can be made of the efficacy of breast self-examination.
Our findings indicate that established risk factors entail similar associations with breast cancer risk among women with and without family history of the disease.
The results suggest that many of the breast cancers found by mammography screening have excellent prognosis not just because of early detection, but also because many of the cancers are relatively benign, requiring minimal therapy.
Robotic surgery provides similar postoperative outcomes to laparoscopic surgery but a reduced learning curve. Although costs are currently high, increased competition from manufacturers and wider dissemination of the technology could drive down costs. Further trials are needed to evaluate long term outcomes in order to evaluate fully the value of all three procedures in urological surgery.
Laparoscopic radical cystectomy is a safe operation with morbidity and mortality rates comparable to the open surgery.
Laparoscopic radical cystectomy is associated with diminished operative bleeding, time to oral intake and hospital stay. Though this is a reproducible technique it demands a very long learning curve.
In patients with muscle invasion at diagnosis, a delay in surgery is associated with more advanced pathological stage, especially when the delay is longer than 90 days. While appropriate time should be given for consideration of options and pretreatment evaluation, undue delay may compromise cancer control.
Elderly patients who underwent cystectomy for TCC had similar mortality and early diversion-related complication rates. Carefully selected elderly patients safely can be offered an orthotopic urinary diversion. Chronological age, per se, is not a contraindication for radical cystectomy in the setting of invasive bladder carcinoma.
Radical cystectomy can be performed in elderly patients with acceptable perioperative mortality and morbidity. However, because of the high incidence of minor medical complications, hospital stay is often prolonged.
RARC is a challenging procedure but is a technique that is reproducible throughout multiple centers. This report helps to define the learning curve for RARC and demonstrates an acceptable level of proficiency by the 30th case for proxy measures of RARC quality.
Laparoscopic radical cystectomy with extracorporeal formation of a neobladder is a feasible procedure with low morbidity and acceptable neobladder function. Long-term follow-up is needed to confirm the oncologic outcomes.
Surgical technique of LRC with OIN can achieve the established oncologic criteria of open surgery, and our oncologic outcome is encouraging. Long-term follow-up is needed for further confirmation.
RARC with totally intracorporeal urinary diversion is technically feasible with good intermediate-term oncologic results. This is a nonrandomised study including a limited number of patients with a restricted follow-up time, however, and so precautions must be considered when interpreting the outcomes.
Progress has been made in reducing mortality and preventing complications of RC. Postoperative morbidity remains high, partly because of the complexity of the procedures. The issues of surgical volume and standardised prospective reporting of RC morbidity to create evidence-based guidelines are essential for further reducing morbidity and improving patients' QoL.
The use of RARC has increased between 2004 and 2010. Compared with ORC, RARC was associated with decreased odds of minor but not major complications and with increased expenditures attributed primarily to higher supply costs. Centralization of ORC and RARC to high-volume providers may minimize these morbidity and cost differences.
We developed a technique for nerve-sparing RRCP using the da Vinci system which allows precise and rapid removal of the bladder with minimal blood loss. The bowel segment can be exteriorized and the most complex form of orthotopic bladder can be created through the incision used to deliver the cystectomy specimen. Performing this part of the operation extracorporeally reduced the operative duration.
Patients undergoing robotic cystectomy experienced fewer postoperative complications than those undergoing open cystectomy. Robotic cystectomy is an independent predictor of fewer overall and major complications. Until long-term oncologic results are available, robotic cystectomy should still be considered investigational.
When applying a standardized methodology to report early morbidity, about 50% of patients undergoing radical cystectomy had complications within 3 months of surgery. Although most complications were minor, about 13% of patients experienced grade 3 to 5 events, resulting in a 3-month mortality rate of 3%. American Society of Anesthesiologists score was significantly associated with major complications, while on subgroup analysis in patients who received an orthotopic ileal neobladder female gender was also an independent predictor of major complications.
RARP can be performed routinely with a relatively small risk of complications. Surgical experience, clinical patient characteristics, and cancer characteristics may affect the risk of complications. Cumulative analyses demonstrated that blood loss and transfusion rates were significantly lower with RARP than with RRP, and transfusion rates were lower with RARP than with LRP, although all other features were similar regardless of the surgical approach.
The initial 35 RARC with PLND performed at our institution compared with the last 35 ORC resulted in equivalent lymph node yield and similar rates of positive margins. RARC with PLND is feasible, safe, and effective when performed at a high-volume center by an experienced team.
The LRC procedure is feasible although technically demanding. The morbidity of this procedure is evident, but may be reduced with further experience. Bowel management and reconstruction remain the most challenging part of the procedure.
In patients undergoing radical cystectomy a delay in surgery of greater than 12 weeks was associated with advanced pathological stage and decreased survival. Although this relationship persisted after adjusting for nodal status, and clinical and pathological stages, the presence of lymph node metastasis remained the strongest predictor of patient outcome.
RARC is associated with lower parenteral nutrition use and fewer inpatient complications and deaths. However, lengths of stay are similar, and the robotic approach is significantly more costly.
Bendamustine can efficaciously and safely replace cyclophosphamide, as used in standard COP therapy, for the treatment of patients with indolent NHL and mantle cell lymphoma. Long-term survival data suggest a clinically significant benefit for patients treated with BOP.
In terms of survival, these trials support a conservative treatment strategy for CLL, i.e., no chemotherapy for most patients with early-stage disease, and single-agent chlorambucil as the first line of treatment for most patients with advanced disease, with no evidence of benefit from early inclusion of an anthracycline. This strategy will, however, need to be reconsidered as mature results become available from trials of other agents.
Taking into account that, currently, chemotherapy regularly is combined with rituximab as first-line therapy for FL and MCL, the data from this study may have an impact on the type of chemotherapy to be applied in such combinations. Particularly in younger, high-risk patients who are candidates for autologous stem cell transplantation, CHOP should be preferred over MCP.
RT can cure approximately one half of Stage I and one quarter of Stage II, World Health Organization Grade 1 or 2 follicular lymphomas. Follicular lymphomas <3.0 cm can be controlled locally with doses of 27.8-30.8 Gy, and there is a trend toward a higher incidence of late complications with doses of >30.8 Gy. Doses of 25-30 Gy delivered in 15-20 fractions should be examined prospectively in patients with follicular lymphomas of <3.0 cm.
In lower risk febrile neutropenic children receiving anticancer therapy, the efficacy of oral cefixime, given for 4 days after 72 hours of intravenous ceftriaxone plus amikacin, was similar to that of 7 days of parenteral ceftriaxone plus amikacin. The oral outpatient therapy approach to the treatment of lower risk febrile neutropenia after chemotherapy is safe and may be cost-saving. This strategy might be adopted as standard therapy in the future.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by interval debulking surgery was not inferior to primary debulking surgery followed by chemotherapy as a treatment option for patients with bulky stage IIIC or IV ovarian carcinoma in this study. Complete resection of all macroscopic disease, whether performed as primary treatment or after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, remains the objective whenever cytoreductive surgery is performed. (Funded by the National Cancer Institute; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In men who had undergone radical prostatectomy for pathologically advanced prostate cancer, adjuvant radiotherapy resulted in significantly reduced risk of PSA relapse and disease recurrence, although the improvements in metastasis-free survival and overall survival were not statistically significant. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: 
This dual-institution prospective randomized trial reveals considerably fewer fistulas with invagination compared with duct to mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy after pancreaticoduodenectomy. Results confirm increased PF rates in soft as compared with hard glands. Additional studies are needed to define the optimal technique of pancreatic reconstruction after pancreaticoduodenectomy.
In young adults with AML, intensifying induction therapy with a high daily dose of daunorubicin improved the rate of complete remission and the duration of overall survival, as compared with the standard dose. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Tapentadol ER (25-200 mg bid) provides analgesic efficacy that is non-inferior to that provided by oxycodone HCl CR (5-40 mg bid) for the management of moderate to severe, chronic malignant tumor-related pain, and is well tolerated overall, with a better gastrointestinal tolerability profile than oxycodone CR.
No significant differences in side effects were detected according to dose or duration of BCG treatment in the four arms. Side effects requiring stoppage of treatment were seen more frequently in the first year, so not all patients are able to receive the 1-3 yr of treatment recommended in current guidelines. This study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov with identifier 
Patients were more likely to show personalised information to their confidants than general information. Further research is needed into the effects of sharing information on patients' social support and anxiety. Trial registration US Government Clinical Trials Database 
Olaparib as maintenance treatment significantly improved progression-free survival among patients with platinum-sensitive, relapsed, high-grade serous ovarian cancer. Interim analysis showed no overall survival benefit. The toxicity profile of olaparib in this population was consistent with that in previous studies. (Funded by AstraZeneca; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Olaparib has few of the adverse effects of conventional chemotherapy, inhibits PARP, and has antitumor activity in cancer associated with the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Patients with squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck who received docetaxel plus cisplatin and fluorouracil induction chemotherapy plus chemoradiotherapy had a significantly longer survival than did patients who received cisplatin and fluorouracil induction chemotherapy plus chemoradiotherapy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
As compared with the standard regimen of cisplatin and fluorouracil, induction chemotherapy with the addition of docetaxel significantly improved progression-free and overall survival in patients with unresectable squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The use of 400 mg of celecoxib once daily significantly reduced the occurrence of colorectal adenomas within three years after polypectomy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
As compared with a liberal transfusion strategy, a restrictive strategy significantly improved outcomes in patients with acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding. (Funded by Fundació Investigació Sant Pau; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In patients with rectal cancer who receive preoperative radiotherapy, adding fluorouracil-based chemotherapy preoperatively or postoperatively has no significant effect on survival. Chemotherapy, regardless of whether it is administered before or after surgery, confers a significant benefit with respect to local control. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Modafinil appears to be effective and well tolerated in treating fatigue in HIV+ patients. Consideration of its use is warranted considering the high prevalence of fatigue in the HIV community, its minimal side effects, and overall patient acceptance.
Patients undergoing colonoscopy with PR are significantly more likely to require intervention for hypoventilation compared with PCS. (
All-trans-retinoic acid as induction or maintenance treatment improves disease-free and overall survival as compared with chemotherapy alone and should be included in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia.
All-trans retinoic acid is an effective agent to induce remission in patients with a molecular diagnosis of acute promyelocytic leukemia, but remissions are short and resistance develops rapidly. Although the incidence of early death was not reduced, the use of all-trans retinoic acid to induce remission, followed by cytotoxic chemotherapy for "consolidation," was associated with longer survival times when compared with historical controls treated only with chemotherapy. Additional studies to prevent or mitigate consequences of the "retinoic acid syndrome" and to identify specific patients who might benefit from earlier intervention with chemotherapy are needed to maximize the advantages of this approach.
Remission induction therapy with ATRA + DNR or THP is effective and safe for newly diagnosed childhood APL. The remission induction therapy combined with chemotherapy containing high/intermediate dose Ara-C can improve the long-term survival rates of APL patients. High WBC count and S subtype of PML-RARa are two poor prognostic factors for children with APL.
Surgical intervention directed by high-resolution anoscopy is safe and eliminates high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions in human immunodeficiency virus-negative patients. The high persistence or recurrence rate in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients suggests that multiple staged procedures and continued surveillance may be necessary.
The infrared coagulator is a safe, office-based modality for treating anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion in human immunodeficiency virus-positive men who have sex with men. Successive treatments led to decreased recurrence rates.
SGN-00101 was well tolerated in HIV-positive individuals, with preliminary evidence for clinical activity.
The assumption that visible perianal warts are benign lesions in HIV-positive patients has to be reevaluated since an important number of such lesions could correspond to low-grade anal disease, which in turn could progress to high-grade anal disease or cancer. In addition, our results in this preliminary study indicate that imiquimod appears to be effective in treating AIN in HIV-positive patients. Further studies are needed to document its utility to prevent high-grade dysplasia and/or anal cancer.
The prime-boost regimen is immunogenic in AGIN patients (humoral and cellular immunity), but there is no simple relationship between induction of systemic HPV-16-specific immunity and clinical outcome. Other factors that may play a role in the eradication of long-term established AGIN lesions need to be determined to identify the patient group that would benefit from immunotherapy with the vaccines used in this study.
The IRC is a well-tolerated method of treating discrete anal canal HSILs in HIV-infected patients. A larger study to characterize its efficacy better in the management of HSILs in HIV-infected individuals is warranted.
Imiquimod appears to be a safe and effective treatment option for AIN in HIV-positive MSM. Clinical response is accompanied by a significant decrease in high-risk HPV DNA load. These results should encourage controlled randomized studies of imiquimod treatment of AIN.
Urokinase could not be shown to act as an adjuvant in the clearance of infection from chronic central venous access catheters that had no evidence of clot or thrombus. This study required the performance of a dye study and excluded any patient with a known thrombus. This conclusion must therefore be limited to patients with no evidence of a clot or fibrin sheath.
The ethanol-lock technique appears to be a safe, well tolerated, and effective way to treat central venous line infections, even in small children. A prospective randomized study should be designed to compare antibiotic-lock, ethanol-lock technique, and systemic antibiotics alone in the treatment of device-associated bloodstream infection.
The current practice in Australasia is consistent with international guidelines, although changes are made more frequently to first-line therapy than in previous published studies. The central venous catheters are associated with a much higher risk of bacteraemia and consideration should be given to increased use of implanted port systems.
Linezolid was well-tolerated and as effective as vancomycin in treating serious Gram-positive infections in children.
Central venous catheters coated with minocycline and rifampin can significantly reduce the risk for catheter-related colonization and bloodstream infections. The use of these catheters may save costs.
Imipenem and cefepime had similar efficacy and safety profiles in the treatment of adult cancer patients with fever and neutropenia who required hospitalization. The addition of either vancomycin or amikacin may not be necessary.
Use of a vancomycin lock solution in high-risk patient populations being treated with long-term central IVDs reduces the risk of BSI. The use of an anti-infective lock solution warrants consideration for patients who require central access but who are at high risk of BSI, such as patients with malignancy or low-birthweight neonates.
To our knowledge, this is one of the largest prospective experiences in the management of bloodstream infection associated with long-term CVCs. The infections were caused by gram-negative bacilli and were managed without catheter removal, with a high response rate. We emphasize the risks of using intravenous formulations of medications supplied by compounding pharmacies that produce large quantities of drugs.
Treating infected CVAD with antibiotics or hydrochloric acid (HCl), clearing occluded lines with streptokinase/HCl and repairing fractured lines, when successful, resulted in a considerable gain in the number of days of use for the CVAD.
The results suggest that HCl instillation is a useful adjunct to systemic antibiotic therapy, enabling both catheter salvage and eradication of antibiotic-refractory catheter-related infection.
The effect of the ethanol/TSC lock on the catheters is unlikely to prohibit clinical use. After 9 weeks of exposure to the solution, the catheter segments could still be stretched to 22 times their length and withstand 11.5 kg (113 N) of force. Clinically produced forces during dialysis are many times smaller than the force required to break the catheters examined in this study. Therefore, the ethanol/TSC lock shows promise as a new catheter locking solution for the treatment of catheter-related infections. Further clinical studies are required.
The evidence is insufficient to warrant routine use of taurolidine. However, results of in vitro studies are encouraging and further adequately powered and well-designed randomized trials are required.
In conclusion, a course of ALT is feasible in cancer patients with infected but much-needed CVCs before resorting to removal. The use of the CLC 2000 connector device simplifies the procedure for preparation and administration of ALT without compromising its efficacy.
Our study suggests that comparison of colony counts from 2 lumens of a double lumen catheter is acceptable for diagnosis of CRBI when a PV culture is not available. Further validation is needed before discontinuing the recommendation to obtain a PV culture.
CVCs may cause complications in up to 40% of patients, with type of CVC, underlying disease and patient age being the three main factors that affect the incidence of CVC-related complications. SL-HB catheters have the best performance.
Administration of urokinase combined with antibiotic therapy is safe and may be effective in treating bacteremia and candidemia in patients with right atrial catheters. Use of urokinase may improve treatment of organisms that are otherwise difficult to control and may prevent recurrence of infection.
Expressing risk of IVD-related BSI per 1000 IVD-days rather than BSIs per 100 IVDs allows for more meaningful estimates of risk. These data, based on prospective studies In which every IVD in the study cohort was analyzed for evidence of infection by microbiologically based criteria, show that all types of IVDs pose a risk of IVD-related BSI and can be used for benchmarking rates of infection caused by the various types of IVDs In use at the present time. Since almost all the national effort and progress to date to reduce the risk of IVD-related Infection have focused on short-term noncuffed CVCs used in Intensive care units, Infection control programs must now strive to consistently apply essential control measures and preventive technologies with all types of IVDs.
These data suggest that first HCRIs occur more commonly in male patients with hematologic malignancies than in patients with solid tumors. The removal of Hickman catheters in oncology patients probably is predicated on the causative pathogen, but further investigations are necessary to delineate this issue.
The daily administration of ethanol locks into lumens of central venous catheters effectively reduces the incidence of CABSI.
Most NIs in the pediatric hematology-oncology patients were associated with CVAD devices. Although many infections in this high-risk population may not be preventable through infection control measures, the careful evaluation of specific infection rates permits the identification of risk factors that may be targeted by infection control programs. Prospective surveillance for NIs on pediatric oncology units is an indispensable tool for this internal quality control.
Cimetidine does not seem to reduce mortality in patients with colorectal cancer, but there seems to be a tendency toward a survival benefit in patients undergoing surgery for Dukes Stage C carcinoma. Results seem to justify trials in this patient category to reveal a benefit of H2 receptor antagonists in adjuvant therapy of colorectal carcinoma.
Histamine inhibits normal lymphocyte function, antagonized by cimetidine at a histamine type 2 receptor. Cimetidine increases lymphocyte infiltration of primary colorectal carcinoma, possibly by overcoming the immunosuppressive effects of high local histamine concentrations. The presence of a local lymphocyte response correlates with an improved 3-year survival.
Based on the results of the current study, a short course of preoperative treatment with cimetidine does appear to have an effect on patient survival; however, the exact mechanism is unknown. The failure of this study to demonstrate a clear increase in the local lymphocyte response does not exclude an immunologic mechanism of action.
Our findings suggest that the frequency of adverse reactions among patients receiving cimetidine for acute acid-peptic disorders is not significantly different from that of patients receiving placebo.
The use of PPIs in clinical practice does not measurably increase the risk of CRC.
The increased adenoma detection rate means of NBI colonoscopy were statistically not significant. It remains speculative as to whether the increasing adenoma rate in the conventional group may have been caused by a training effect of better polyp recognition on NBI.
This large randomized trial in a homogeneous private practice screening setting could not show any objective advantage of the NBI technique over white-light high definition television imaging in terms of improved adenoma detection rate. Contrast enhancement therefore likely will not contribute to a reduction in adenoma miss rates among experienced colonoscopists.
The pan-colonic NBI system improves the total number of adenomas detected, including significantly more diminutive adenomas, without prolongation of extubation time. These results indicate that routine use of the NBI system for surveillance of diminutive adenomas may be recommended.
The routine use of NBI in screening colonoscopy did not increase the adenoma detection rate. NBI seems to improve the detection of flat adenomas, although additional studies are necessary.
NBI did not result in better detection of adenomas by an endoscopist with a known high detection rate using white light. This result does not exclude a possible benefit of NBI in reducing variation between endoscopists in detection of adenomas. The very high adenoma detection rate in this study suggests that high definition should be directly tested for its effect on detection of adenomas.
Use of NBI in the proximal colon for patients undergoing HNPCC surveillance appears to improve adenoma detection, particularly those with a flat morphology. NBI could help reduce interval cancer rates.
Determination of pit patterns of colorectal neoplasias by NBI magnification was nearly the same as that by standard magnification with chromoendoscopy. Furthermore, NBI can distinguish neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions without chromoendoscopy.
NBI magnification findings of colorectal lesions were associated with histologic grade and invasion depth.
These results suggest that in the examination of colonic lesions the NBI system provides imaging features additional to those of both conventional endoscopy and chromoendoscopy. For distinguishing neoplasms from non-neoplastic lesions, NBI was equivalent to chromoendoscopy.
This pilot study demonstrates the feasibility of polyp detection and histologic correlation with NBI. These findings need to be confirmed in future randomized controlled trials.
Using a simple surface mucosal/vascular pattern classification, NBI without magnification was highly accurate and significantly superior to HDWL for the real-time prediction of adenomas.
This initial evaluation showed that the NBI polyp patterns described in our pilot study are reproducible, easy to learn, reasonably accurate, and have the potential for use in daily clinical practice for the real-time differentiation of colon polyps.
Overall, NBI was not more accurate than WL in differentiating colorectal polyps in vivo; however, once a learning curve was achieved, NBI performed significantly better. Further refinements of an NBI pit-pattern classification and VCI scale are needed before broad application to clinical decisions regarding the necessity of polypectomy.
NBI without optical magnification was more accurate in predicting colon polyp histology compared with white light imaging. Image quality and confidence in histology were significantly higher in the NBI group. NBI without optical magnification may be useful in predicting colon polyp histology.
Non-experienced endoscopists have better interobserver agreement and accuracy for AFI than for HR-WLE or NBI, indicating that AFI is easier to use for polyp differentiation in non-experienced setting. The newly developed algorithm, combining information of AFI and NBI together, had the highest accuracy and obtained equal results between experienced and non-experienced endoscopists.
Incomplete polypectomy might play an important role in the development of interval colorectal cancer. No association between other colonoscopy-related factors or tumor characteristics and interval cancers was found.
Magnifying endoscopy by NBI is more useful than conventional magnifying endoscopy for the diagnosis of BE.
We confirm a significant miss rate for polyps or adenoma during colonoscopy. Detection of flat polyps is an issue that must be focused on to improve the quality of colonoscopy.
PDRs vary widely among endoscopists, although only a few (high) outliers were identified. Variation in PDRs was associated only with MPT. Further research is needed to determine the clinical importance of and reasons for this variation.
Interval cancer occurs despite colonoscopy. Improved quality of colonoscopy may have reduced cancer prevalence or resulted in earlier cancer detection in over 50% of prevalent cancers in the dietary Polyp Prevention Trial.
Most clinically significant adenomas missed prospectively on OC are located behind a fold or near the anal verge. The 12% OC miss rate for large adenomas (>or=10 mm) when state-of-the-art 3-dimensional VC is used as a separate reference standard is increased from the previous 0% to 6% estimates derived by using OC as its own reference standard.
Using current colonoscopic technology, there are significant miss rates for adenomas < 1 cm even with meticulous colonoscopy. Miss rates are low for adenomas > or = 1 cm. The results suggest the need for improvements in colonoscopic technology.
CRC is diagnosed in a clinically important proportion of patients following complete colonoscopy and polypectomy. More precise and representative estimates of CRC incidence and death among patients undergoing surveillance examinations are needed.
The new en bloc resection method for EMR with two endoscopes described here is feasible and may be a safe and a reliable technique for curative treatment of mucosal gastric cancer.
Colonoscopic polypectomy resulted in a lower-than-expected incidence of colorectal cancer. These results support the view that colorectal adenomas progress to adenocarcinomas, as well as the current practice of searching for and removing adenomatous polyps to prevent colorectal cancer.
The narrow-band imaging system improved the accuracy of magnifying endoscopy for assessment of esophageal lesion.
Pretreatment extraperitoneal staging of patients with bulky or locally advanced cervical carcinoma may afford a survival benefit via the debulking of macroscopically positive lymph nodes without significantly increasing treatment-related morbidity or mortality.
Surgical exclusion (compared with radiographic exclusion) of positive PALNs in patients with cervical cancer who received chemoradiation (RT plus C-based chemotherapy) had a significant prognostic impact.
Pretherapeutic laparoscopic assessment of patients with locally advanced cervical cancer offers valuable information for individualized treatment planning with minimal morbidity. This appears to be a therapeutic effect with resection of positive nodes followed by a tailored chemoradiation therapy.
PET/CT was more sensitive than MRI for detecting lymph node metastases in patients with uterine cervical carcinoma.
This preliminary experience showed that laparoscopic pelvic or para-aortic lymphadenectomy was an efficient and feasible surgical staging procedure in the pretreatment evaluation of carcinoma of the uterine cervix and elaborates the rationale for the management of cervical cancer.
Cochrane reviews have gone a long way to establishing a sound evidence base in gynaecologic surgery: some gaps in the evidence have been eliminated and others highlighted. In general, gynaecology has been a specialty where surgical interventions have been well exposed to the scrutiny of RCTs compared with other surgical specialties.
Regimens of radiotherapy and chemotherapy that contain cisplatin improve the rates of survival and progression-free survival among women with locally advanced cervical cancer.
The statistically significant difference in overall survival at 10 years for the pelvic plus para-aortic irradiation arm, without a difference in disease-free survival, can be explained by the following two factors: (1) a lower incidence of distant failure in complete responders and (2) a better salvage in the complete responders who later failed locally.
Extended field and intracavitary irradiation with cisplatin for para-aortic or high common iliac metastasis from cervical cancer is associated with significant acute and late toxicity.
This novel technique is feasible and combines the benefits of laparoscopy with those of a retroperitoneal approach. It can be used to tailor external radiation therapy. The benefits of extended-field radiation therapy remain unclear; however, this approach does not preclude later use of radiation therapy, whereas possibly minimizing associated toxicities secondary to adhesions.
Capecitabine monotherapy is effective over the long term for heavily pretreated patients with MBC who have no liver metastasis, good performance status, longer disease-free interval, or hormone receptor-positive tumor. Patients who have no liver metastasis, who respond to capecitabine, or who have good performance status are expected to survive even longer.
Patients with stage III-IV DLBCL who achieve negative post-chemotherapy imaging have improved in-field control and event-free survival with low-dose consolidation RT.
Consolidation radiotherapy to bulky or semibulky lesions significantly improved the outcome in patients with advanced DLCL in complete remission after primary chemotherapy. Involved-field irradiation with 36-45 Gy made a prolonged disease control possible without either lethal toxicity or a higher incidence of second malignancies.
Three cycles of CHOP followed by involved-field radiotherapy are superior to eight cycles of CHOP alone for the treatment of localized intermediate- and high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Forty-four percent of patients with advanced stage DLBCL failed at initial presenting sites after achieving CR to R-CHOP. Incorporation of consolidative RT as part of upfront treatment in these patients was associated with improved LC, PFS, and a trend towards improved OS.
Prophylactic drainage of the retroperitoneum seems to increase lymphadenectomy-related morbidity and postoperative stay. Therefore, routine drainage following lymphadenectomy seems to be no longer indicated when the retroperitoneum is left open.
The number of asymptomatic para-aortic lymphocysts was higher in patients who did not undergo drainage, but morbidity and the duration of hospitalization were increased in these patients. Routine drainage of the retroperitoneum after para-aortic lymphadenectomy should be abandoned.
When imagining a last year of life with cancer, the public is not only concerned about medical problems but also about being a burden. Public education about palliative care and symptom control is needed. Cancer care should include a routine assessment and management of social concerns, particularly for older patients with poor prognosis.
Within the midst of advanced progressive illness, coordination is a shared and complex intervention involving relational, structural and information components. Our study is one of the first to extensively examine patients' and caregivers' views about coordination, thus aiding conceptual fidelity. These findings can be used to help avoid oversimplifying a real-world problem, such as care coordination. Avoiding oversimplification can help with the development, evaluation and implementation of real-world coordination interventions for patients and their unpaid caregivers in the future.
Within Europe, the public recognizes the importance of death and dying; they are concerned about the prioritization of quantity of life over quality of life; and they call for improved quality of end-of-life and palliative care for patients, especially for elderly patients, and families. To fulfil the urgent need for a policy response and to advance research and care, we suggest four solutions for European palliative and end-of-life care: institute government-led national strategies; protect regional research funding; consider within- and between-country variance; establish standards for training, education and service delivery.
Centenarians are more likely to have causes of death certified as pneumonia and frailty and less likely to have causes of death of cancer or ischemic heart disease, compared with younger elderly patients. To reduce reliance on hospital care at the end of life requires recognition of centenarians' increased likelihood to "acute" decline, notably from pneumonia, and wider provision of anticipatory care to enable people to remain in their usual residence, and increasing care home bed capacity.
The main elements of bereavement support can be identified but their combination varies. Assessment of people for individual support varies and the small size of many services may inhibit the effective delivery of support. Audit and evaluation of bereavement support may need to be developed.
Existing evidence is explicit and indeed repetitive in highlighting the educational needs of health care professionals to explore sexual preferences, avoid heterosexist assumptions, and recognize the importance of partners in decision making. There is also a significant need to research LGBT experiences and refine services for patients and their caregivers.
Evidence that palliative interventions cut costs, without reducing quality of life, by minimising futile medical acts is limited. Further research, including both observational studies and controlled trials, should be conducted to collect empirical data in this field. Future research should examine palliative interventions earlier in chronic progressive illness, and incorporate standardised outcome measures to allow meta-analysis.
Receiving PC earlier has a similar effect on reducing symptoms but greater effects on reducing care giver burden, compared to later referral. In this phase II trial, the authors lacked the power to detect small differences. The effect of PC is maintained for 6 weeks after withdrawal but then appears to wane.
Because bereaved caregivers with prolonged grief disorder underutilize mental health services, connecting them with services while the patient is still alive may be beneficial.
The coping skills intervention was effective in improving caregiver QOL, reducing burden related to patients' symptoms, and caregiving tasks compared with hospice care alone or hospice plus emotional support. Structured caregiver skill-training interventions for caregivers are promising even in the difficult environment of end-of-life care and for families already receiving benefits of hospice care.
Death registration data using both underlying and contributory causes can give reliable estimates of the population-based need for palliative care, without needing symptom or hospital activity data. In high-income countries, 69%-82% of those who die need palliative care.
The pilot study showed that, even with very short timelines, it is possible to undertake DA-VOI that can feed into the priority-setting process that has been developed for the HTA programme. There are however a number of areas that need to be established at the beginning of the process, such as clarification of the nature of the decision problem for which additional research is being considered, explicitness about which existing data should be used and how data that exhibit particular weaknesses should be down-weighted in the analysis. Other areas, including optimum application of researcher time, integrating the vignette (a summary of the clinical problem and existing evidence) and the use of DA-VOI, training, use of sensitivity analyses, and deployment of clinical expertise, are also considered in terms of the potential implementation of DA-VOI within the HTA programme. Recommendations for further research include how literature searching should focus on those variables to which the model's results are most sensitive and with the highest expected value of perfect information; methods of evidence synthesis (multiple parameter synthesis) to consider the evidence surrounding multiple comparators and networks of evidence; and ways in which the value of sample information can be used by the NHS HTA programme and other research funders to decide on the most efficient design of new evaluative research. There is also a need for an analytical framework to be developed that can jointly address the question of whether additional resources would better be devoted to additional research or interventions to change clinical practice.
Our findings challenge current assumptions underpinning provision of end of life care for people with COPD. The policy focus on identifying a time point for transition to palliative care has little resonance for people with COPD or their clinicians and is counter productive if it distracts from early phased introduction of supportive care. Careful assessment of possible supportive and palliative care needs should be triggered at key disease milestones along a lifetime journey with COPD, in particular after hospital admission for an exacerbation.
All of the hospices were offering appropriate types of bereavement support that clearly met Components 1 and 2 of bereavement support in the NICE guidance. In the absence of any agreement about "best practice" for adult bereavement support services it is the integration of bereavement support as a central aspect of hospice activity that is most likely to improve bereavement support for adults in the future.
Definitions of end of life care need clarification and standardisation. A greater evidence base is needed to define models of good practice together with a commitment to provide education and training and adequate resources for service provision. More needs to be known about the context of provision and the influence of competing priorities and incentives.
Evidence on the care of patients with multimorbidity is limited, despite the prevalence of multimorbidity and its impact on patients and healthcare systems. Interventions to date have had mixed effects, although are likely to be more effective if targeted at risk factors or specific functional difficulties. A need exists to clearly identify patients with multimorbidity and to develop cost effective and specifically targeted interventions that can improve health outcomes.
Among patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer, early palliative care led to significant improvements in both quality of life and mood. As compared with patients receiving standard care, patients receiving early palliative care had less aggressive care at the end of life but longer survival. (Funded by an American Society of Clinical Oncology Career Development Award and philanthropic gifts; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
It was not possible to prove that lower anastomosis can be achieved with the stapling device. Routine or regular use of stapling instruments for infraperitoneal colorectal anastomosis cannot be advocated because of higher incidence of mishaps and strictures, even though the operation takes less time to perform and anastomotic leakage occurs less often.
According to these results, there seems to be no advantage of routine or regular use of stapling instruments for supraperitoneal colorectal anastomosis.
The clinical and functional long-term results of perineal rectosigmoidectomy with levatorplasty are not influenced by surgical instruments and type of coloanal anastomosis. The clinical relevance of the short-term results in high-risk patients should be specifically investigated.
In emergency intestinal surgery comparable results can be achieved using mechanical and manual anastomoses.
The triangulating stapling technique is an attractive alternative to other methods for creating a colocolonic anastomosis.
Stapled co-loanal anastomosis is significantly faster than handsewn CAA and has similar functional results. It should be the preferred technique when it is feasible.
Both techniques had similar early postoperative outcomes; however, stapled IPAA offered improved nocturnal continence, which was reflected in higher anorectal physiologic measurements. A risk of increased incidence of dysplasia in the ATZ may exist in the stapled group that cannot be quantified by this study. We describe a decision algorithm for the choice of IPAA, based on the relative risk of long-term neoplastic transformation.
The type of ultra-low anterior resection (DST or CAA) did not affect survival and recurrence after curative resection for carcinoma of the lower third of the rectum.
When permitted by intestinal size in infants younger than 1 year, stapled anastomoses were safe and effective and significantly reduced operative time.
Both heparin 5,000 units subcutaneously every 8 hours and enoxaparin 40 mg subcutaneously once daily provide highly effective and safe prophylaxis for patients undergoing colorectal surgery. However, given the current differences in cost, prophylaxis with low-dose heparin remains the preferred method at present.
This is the first report of a prospective, randomized comparison of fibrinolysis factors using sequential compression devices in comparison to low dose unfractionated heparin in general surgical patients, and comparing postoperative values to preop. Both groups showed an enhanced fibrinolysis by elevation in t-PA antigen and D-dimer on POD 1, as expected when fibrinolysis occurs. While PAI-1 and t-PA work in parallel, the marked elevation of PAI-1 on POD 1 (although only slightly above reference values) and continuing into POD 7 for subjects using compression devices requires further inquiry. The elevation of PAI-1 in the face of elevated t-PA and D-dimer has been reported, but the comparison between patients using sequential compression devices and mini-dose heparin has not been reported. The reason for the elevation requires additional study into other influences on the synthesis, secretion, and/or function of PAI-1 that do not affect t-PA.
Low molecular weight heparins seem to have a higher benefit to risk ratio than unfractionated heparin in preventing perioperative thrombosis. However, it remains to be shown in a suitably powered clinical trial whether low molecular weight heparin reduces the risk of fatal pulmonary embolism compared with heparin.
In the treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma, dacarbazine plus tamoxifen is more effective than dacarbazine alone, as indicated by both the response rate and the median survival; the difference in efficacy is among women.
ROLL successfully localised all lesions; this technique can be implemented in any DGH with a Nuclear Medicine Department. The learning curve is short, cost effectiveness is proven, and cosmetic results are highly rewarding. ROLL could rapidly become the standard localisation technique in the UK.
We concluded that ROLL enables the surgeon to remove occult breast lesions easily and reliably.
The total number of new cases of cancer in Europe appears to have increased by 300,000 since 2004. With an estimated 3.2 million new cases (53% occurring in men, 47% in women) and 1.7 million deaths (56% in men, 44% in women) each year, cancer remains an important public health problem in Europe and the ageing of the European population will cause these numbers to continue to increase even if age-specific rates remain constant. Evidence-based public health measures exist to reduce the mortality of breast and colorectal cancer while the incidence of lung cancer, and several other forms of cancer, could be diminished by improved tobacco control.
Lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation continues to be appropriate therapy for women with breast cancer, provided that the margins of resected specimens are free of tumor and an acceptable cosmetic result can be obtained.
RSL is as effective as WL for the excision of nonpalpable breast lesions and reduces the incidence of pathologically involved margins of excision. RSL also reduces scheduling conflicts and may allow elimination of intraoperative specimen mammography. RSL is an attractive alternative to WL.
RSL is a promising approach for the resection of nonpalpable breast lesions. It is a reliable and safe alternative to WLBB. RSL is at least equivalent compared with WLBB in terms of the ease of the procedure, removing the target lesion, the volume of breast tissue excised, obtaining negative margins, avoiding a second operative intervention, and allowing for simultaneous axillary staging.
US-guided excision seems to be superior to wire-guided excision with respect to margin clearance of mammographically detected and US-visible nonpalpable breast cancers. Patients do not have to undergo the unpleasant wire placement before surgery.
CAL is a preferred alternative to standard wire localization because it provides a palpable template, removes less tissue and improves cosmesis, decreases overall procedure time, and is more convenient for the patient and surgeon.
The ROLL procedure seems to be an alternative to WGL in patients with non-palpable breast carcinoma. To determine the place of ROLL versus WGL in the treatment of non-palpable breast cancer, a randomized clinical trial is needed.
Percutaneous fluoroscopic gastrostomy tube placement is a safe, economical, and comfortable method that has distinct advantages over other gastrostomy tube placement methods. It is recommended for enteral feeding and nutritional supplementation in patients with head and neck cancer.
Identification of factors associated with an increased risk of feeding tube placement may allow physicians to better counsel patients regarding the possibility of feeding tube placement during treatment. Since feeding tube placement has been linked to decreased quality of life in head and neck cancer, such counseling is an integral part of the clinical management of these patients.
The use of PGTs significantly reduces weight loss and the rate of hospitalization for dehydration and complications of mucositis. Treatment interruptions may also be avoided by the use of PGTs in patients with good performance status. We encourage patients scheduled for intensive radiation therapy to receive a PGT.
Although patients treated for head and neck carcinoma find that the PEG tube is a more acceptable route for enteral nutrition than the NG tube, in the authors' experience, a PEG tube was required for longer periods of time and was associated with more persistent dysphagia and an increased need for pharyngoesophageal dilatation. A randomized prospective trial is needed to test these observations.
Loss of weight was limited after prophylactic gastrostomy placement and early tube feeding. Moreover, the complication rate was low. In 82% of the NED patients the PEG could eventually be removed.
Addition of anti-thymocyte globulin to the FBC conditioning regimen had no effect on stem cells engraftment but could decrease acute and chronic GVHD and improve patients life quality.
Thymoglobulin was found to be superior to Atgam in reversing acute rejection and preventing recurrent rejection after therapy in renal transplant recipients.
This report describes the FDA's review supporting this first approval of a chemotherapeutic drug for advanced cervical cancer based on demonstration of a survival benefit.
MVAC's clinical activity tended to be similar to that of TC but with an unacceptable risk of death from sepsis at this dose and schedule. Nevertheless, QOL, as measured by these instruments, was not substantially impaired by this regimen.
Both of these schedules and doses of bryostatin-1 are inactive as single agents in the second-line treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.
Bleomycin, ifosfamide and cisplatin improved the response rate in recurrent and metastatic cervical cancer compared with cisplatinum alone. However, the toxicity was moderate and survival was not significantly improved. These results need to be confirmed in a phase III, randomized study in larger number of patients.
In this retrospective evaluation, CT compares favorably with PT and demonstrates a superior overall response rate. Because of its ease of administration and improved toxicity profile, CT should be considered in the treatment of advanced, recurrent or progressive cervical cancer.
Initial studies suggest that gemcitabine may be useful in the management of recurrent or advanced cervical cancer when used concurrently with cisplatin. Accordingly, a large phase III study will compare cisplatin/gemcitabine with the current standard, and further evaluation of gemcitabine appears to be warranted in conjunction with radiotherapy and in the neoadjuvant setting.
Carboplatin-paclitaxel is an active combination in advanced and recurrent cervical cancer. In this predominantly pre-irradiated group, the combination was deliverable, well tolerated, and the most commonly observed toxicity was anemia.
The follow-on study will test the hypothesis that three sessions of training improve breathlessness better than a single session. It will include patients undergoing palliative anti-cancer therapy. Stratification by centre will allow for differences in rates of chemotherapy or radiotherapy and variations in breathlessness service configuration.
Systematic use of structured symptom assessment forestalled increased symptom distress over time. Chemotherapy lessened symptom distress, but the impact diminished with time. Subjects with more depression and greater functional limitations had greater symptom distress.
The significant decrease in anxiety observed in this sample of patients with breast and lung cancer following foot reflexology suggests that this may be a self-care approach to decrease anxiety in this patient population.
A nurse reflexologist taught partners how to perform reflexology on patients with metastatic cancer pain in the hospital, resulting in an immediate decrease in pain intensity and anxiety; minimal changes were seen in the control group, who received usual care plus attention.
The behaviorally oriented intervention brought about significant improvements in physical functioning, indicated a trend toward improved CRF, but detected no effect for fatigue-related distress.
Radiotherapy initially caused a worsening of fatigue but with time fatigue levels returned to baseline. Clinically, this structured multidisciplinary intervention had no impact on fatigue, and there was the suggestion the multiple sessions may have contributed to worse fatigue during active cancer treatment.
Respiratory Function and exercise capacity significantly improve following a post-operative 4-week i-PR in lung resected patients. i-PR could be regarded as a component of the management of patients who have undergone LR for cancer.
A single music therapy session was found to be effective for decreasing anxiety and promoting relaxation, as indicated by decreases in heart rate and respiratory rate over the intervention period with this sample of patients receiving ventilatory assistance.
The findings provide additional support for the effectiveness of COI in helping patients to maintain more of their usual activities during radiation therapy. Instruction in progressive muscle relaxation also may help in maintaining activities.
The current study found that aerobic exercise can reduce fatigue and improve psychologic distress in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Group therapy may enhance quality of life for cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy by reducing their emotional and physical distress. The degree to which patients acknowledge the diagnosis of malignancy may be a factor in their initial distress level and their response to radiotherapy and group therapy.
Behavioral interventions targeted to patients with pain and fatigue can reduce symptom burden, improve the quality of the daily life of patients, and demonstrate the "value-added" role of nursing care for patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Adjuvant psychological therapy produces significant improvement in various measures of psychological distress among cancer patients. The effect of therapy observed at eight weeks persists in some but not all measures at four month follow up.
These results suggest that the bereaved's psychological distress can be positively influenced depending on how their loved one is cared for during the terminal phase of illness.
Cancer-care nursing interventions can decrease psychosocial morbidity and improve quality of life for newly diagnosed patients with cancer undergoing treatment. Additional research is needed to understand who benefited most from the intervention.
Patients stated that using VR made the treatment seem shorter and that chemotherapy treatments with VR were better than treatments without the distraction intervention. However, positive experiences did not result in a decrease in symptom distress. The findings support the idea that using VR can help to make chemotherapy treatments more tolerable, but clinicians should not assume that use of VR will improve chemotherapy-related symptoms.
The new nursing role did not have an impact on the patient outcomes under study.
This program was effective in decreasing mood disturbance and stress symptoms in both male and female patients with a wide variety of cancer diagnoses, stages of illness, and ages. cancer, stress, mood, intervention, mindfulness.
The Outlook intervention was acceptable to patients from a variety of educational and ethnic backgrounds and offers a brief, manualized, intervention for emotional and spiritual concerns.
Patient characteristics influence choice of complementary therapies, highlighting the need for RCTs to evaluate the true effect of complementary therapies on the QOL of patients with cancer. Further research on complementary therapies can help healthcare providers identify patients who are likely to benefit most by addressing nursing-sensitive outcomes.
Despite the important reduction of smoking prevalence observed among males, the smoking prevalence rate of the Catalan population remains high. The situation is particularly unfavourable in young people of both sexes and in women, whose smoking habit has specific characteristics.
We conclude that adjuvant chemotherapy after RT for patients with advanced NPC has no benefit for overall survival or relapse-free survival.
This multicenter randomized study did not demonstrate any benefit with the addition of cisplatin-epirubicin neoadjuvant chemotherapy for patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma; therefore routine administration of neoadjuvant chemotherapy to this target group cannot be recommended. Although the overall incidence of recurrence was reduced with the addition of chemotherapy in the efficacy analysis, the overall survival was not affected. A more effective chemotherapy regimen, the selection of an appropriate target group, and the use of an alternative strategy for combining chemoradiotherapy should be explored in future trials.
BEC type neoadjuvant chemotherapy has a significant impact in the natural history of UCNT. Further follow-up is needed to establish an eventual overall survival difference.
The use of CDDP-5FU chemotherapy prior to radiotherapy in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma did not result in a significant improvement in disease free survival or overall survival. However, there was a positive tendency in favor of the CT arm for distant metastasis free survival, although there was no improvement in the locoregional recurrence free survival rate.
This trial demonstrated the significant survival benefits of concurrent chemotherapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with locoregionally advanced NPC in endemic regions of China.
Preliminary results suggest that concurrent chemoradiotherapy with accelerated fractionation could significantly improve tumor control when compared with conventional RT alone; further confirmation of therapeutic ratio is warranted.
In selected patients a single dose of ciprofloxacin-tinidazole is adequate prophylaxis for transrectal needle biopsy of the prostate. The present urinary infection rate was higher if no antibiotics were used. Continuing the antibiotic prophylaxis for 3 days offered no benefit over single-dose prophylaxis.
There was no statistically significant difference in the rate of positive MSUs between the groups. The incidence of infections was considerably higher than in previously published series where other antibiotics were used, suggesting that co-amoxiclav is not the drug of choice for transrectal prostatic biopsy.
There was no significant difference between the two antibiotic prophylaxis regimen (one single dose or three days) for patients undergoing TRUS guided biopsies. Therefore, the single preoperative dose should be the preferred option.
The current study suggests that a single oral dose of antimicrobial prophylaxis is reasonable in TRUS prostate biopsy even in the case of 12-core sampling.
This prospective study showed that short-term prophylaxis with P/T was associated with a low rate of asymptomatic bacteriuria, requiring no further treatment, whereas although the rate was similar on long-term prophylaxis with ciprofloxacin patients required further treatment, with one needing hospitalization. We recommend short-term prophylaxis with P/T despite its disadvantages of cost and parenteral administration.
Single-dose oral ciprofloxacin reduced bacteriuria after biopsy compared with placebo in patients undergoing transrectal prostatic biopsy and provided an economic advantage. In addition, this study establishes the actual rate of bacteriuria after transrectal needle biopsy of the prostate without antibiotic prophylaxis to be 8% with a clinical rate of UTI of 5% and a hospitalization rate of 2%.
Several advances made transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsies a useful and safe diagnostic tool in the workup of urologic patients. There is no optimal prophylactic preparation to the performance of this procedure. Long term antimicrobial prophylaxis presents a trend toward lower incidence of infectious complications.
Our study shows single-dose oral antibiotic prophylaxis is effective and safe to prevent infectious complications follow transrectal prostate biopsy.
Lavage with betadine prior to transrectal prostate biopsy is adequate in the prevention of infective complications; however, because lidocaine gel is not effective against pain, alternative methods for pain management need to be developed.
Some factors have a clear impact on the risk of developing an infection after transrectal core biopsy. Prophylaxis for one week with norfloxacin is an effective way to minimize these infections.
Prophylaxis scheme with tobramicin plus ciprofloxacin was more efficacy that tobramicina alone in transrectal prostatic biopsy. Hematuria was the most common complication. E. coli was the microorganism most frequent in infectious complications after prostatic biopsy and amoxicillin-clavulanic, tobramicin and third generation of cephalosporins the most effective antibiotics in our hospital.
Transrectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsy accompanied by quinolone antibiotic prophylaxis remains a relatively safe procedure. Enema before biopsy provides no clinically significant outcome advantage, and potentially increases patient cost and discomfort.
Prostate transrectal ultrasound and transrectal prostate biopsy was an approach well tolerated by most (81.5%) patients studied. Percentage of major complications was very small (1%), while post-biopsy events (haematuria, rectorrhage, etc) which do not require medical care should be considered not as complications but as effects intrinsic to the approach itself. Antibiotic prophylaxis whether with Pefloxacin or Ciprofloxacine was highly effective, although Pefloxacin is preferred due to its single dose administration and lower cost.
Bowel preparation before prostate biopsy is not standardized among urologists. Phosphate enema with povidone-iodine administered at the hospital is an effective way to reduce the infection rate for agricultural people who have poor compliance or inaccuracy when self-administering bowel preparations.
The number of biopsy cores and prebiopsy rectal preparation use were statistically significant risk factors for infectious complications after prostate biopsy in our study. Thus, we recommend a rectal preparation before prostate biopsy to minimize the risk of infectious complications.
Bacteremia and bacteriuria after multiple biopsies are common but usually asymptomatic. Bacteria is apparently introduced into the urine and/or blood from the rectum via the biopsy needle, which may be minimized by a pre-biopsy enema. Dysuria or a history of urinary tract infection did not predict problems after biopsy.
A single high-dose of oral ciprofloxacin 750 mg can be administered in direct conjunction with prostate biopsy to men without recognised risk factors, keeping the infection rate at approximately 1%. Bacteriuria before biopsy is a major risk factor for infective complications. Attention given to recognising individual risk factors would reduce the risk of infection further.
TRUBP continues to be associated with significant infectious complications, especially UTI. Given the increasing incidence of antibiotic resistance mainly among the Enterobacteriaceae, antimicrobial prophylaxis practices should be reevaluated and the universal administration of quinolones alone or in combination with aminoglycosides should be reconsidered.
Tosufloxacin was as effective as levofloxacin when administered twice daily for 2 days as prophylaxis for TBP, which suggests that this regimen is useful for reducing the clinical and febrile infection rate following TBP.
After 7 to 10 years of follow-up, the rate of death from prostate cancer was very low and did not differ significantly between the two study groups. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Except for the TURP and prostate biopsy, there is a lack of well-performed studies investigating the need for antibiotic prophylaxis in urologic interventions.
Although saturation prostate biopsy improves cancer detection in men with suspicion of cancer following a negative biopsy, it does not appear to offer benefit as an initial biopsy technique. These findings suggest that further efforts at extended biopsy strategies beyond 10 to 12 cores are not appropriate as an initial biopsy strategy.
The volume-adjusted, increased-core regimen significantly increased the positive biopsy rate of TRUS-guided prostate biopsies with no added morbidity.
The overall cancer detection rate is not materially increased by 12 core, peripheral zone biopsy in men in whom prostate cancer was mainly detected by screening.
The 12-core prostate biopsy procedure is generally well tolerated and can be safely performed with no significant difference in pain or morbidity compared to the 6-core procedure.
Doubling the sextant biopsy does not affect the quality of life in regard to emotional well-being, role limitation due to physical health, or return to routine daily activity, work-employment or sports-exercise.
The gain in prostate cancer detection rate by additional median biopsies is low, but statistically significant. There is no difference in morbidity and patient acceptance is high, therefore we favor the 10-core biopsy in our patients.
PSA-based screening reduced the rate of death from prostate cancer by 20% but was associated with a high risk of overdiagnosis. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN49127736.)
The pre-PBX preparation is not standardized among American urologists.
The analgesic effects of Sr and Sm-EDTMP was similar in both prostate and breast carcinoma. However, the effect was dependent on the type of metastases; better response was observed in cases of osteoblastic metastases than in patients with mixed metastases. Severe adverse reactions after this therapy were rare.
It is concluded that the addition of strontium-89 is an effective adjuvant therapy to local field radiotherapy reducing progression of disease as evidenced by new sites of pain and the requirement of further radiotherapy and improving quality-of-life and need for analgesic support in this group of patients.
These findings demonstrate that 1 mCi/kg 153Sm-lexidronam is both safe and effective for the palliation of painful bone metastases in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Both 89Sr and 186Re-HEDP are effective and safe in bone pain palliation in breast cancer with the latter showing a significantly faster onset of pain relief.
Patients with osteosarcoma who have previously been heavily treated with chemotherapy can be safely administered (153)Sm-EDTMP with rapid hematologic recovery. The data from the current study support the development of a future trial to assess the efficacy of combining targeted radiotherapy with cytotoxic chemotherapy as a treatment option for patients with high-risk osteosarcoma.
Strontium-89 as initial supplement to ER for palliation of pain in HRMPC is beneficial both from the patient and lifetime health service costs perspectives.
Retreatments with (186)Re-HEDP under zoledronic acid provide continuing effectiveness in metastatic bone pain and are safe enough, if an acceptable baseline hematologic status exists.
In patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, alvimopan accelerated gastrointestinal recovery and time to the hospital discharge order written compared with placebo and was well tolerated.
Alvimopan reverses codeine's inhibitory effect on small-bowel and colon transit and has potential for treatment of opiate bowel dysfunction. Alvimopan alone accelerates colonic transit, suggesting that mu-opiate mechanisms participate in the physiologic control of colonic transit.
The results show that the naloxone formulation counteracts the effect of codeine on intestinal transit, suggesting that it may have useful clinical applications.
Our results provide evidence that the administration of enteral opioid antagonists in ventilated patients with opioid analgesia might be a simple-and possibly preventive-treatment of increased gastric tube reflux and reduces frequency of pneumonia.
The attenuation of morphine-induced delay in gastric emptying by methylnaltrexone suggests that the opioid effect is mediated outside the central nervous system. Methylnaltrexone may have the potential to decrease the side effects of opioid medications, which are mediated peripherally, while maintaining the central analgesia effect of the opioid.
Alvimopan (6 or 12 mg) accelerates GI recovery and is well tolerated in patients undergoing open laparotomy.
Alvimopan accelerated GI recovery and time to hospital discharge order written compared with placebo in patients undergoing laparotomy and was well tolerated.
Our data demonstrate that intravenous methylnaltrexone can induce laxation and reverse slowing of oral cecal-transit time in subjects taking high opioid dosages. Low-dosage methylnaltrexone may have clinical utility in managing opioid-induced constipation.
Epidural analgesia with bupivacaine and morphine provided the best balance of analgesia and side effects while accelerating postoperative recovery of gastrointestinal function and time to fulfillment of discharge criteria after colon surgery in relatively healthy patients within the context of a multimodal recovery program.
The trade-off for increased survival with AP is its potential for clinically significant peripheral neuropathy. This should be discussed with patients, particularly those who work with their hands or on their feet, in weighing therapeutic choices. Further research is needed to manage side effects having an enduring impact on QOL.
In comparison to single agent DOX, the combination of DOX-CDDP results in higher but acceptable toxicity. The response rate produced is significantly higher, and a modest survival benefit is achieved with this combination regimen, especially in patients with a good performance status.
Doxorubicin and 24-h paclitaxel plus filgrastim was not superior to doxorubicin and cisplatin in terms of response, PFS or survival in advanced endometrial cancer.
There is possibility that postoperative adjuvant CAP may be omitted in surgical stage I or II endometrial cancer patients with 0 or 1 prognostic factor. The high-risk group of patients should be treated with postoperative adjuvant CAP to decrease distant failure and improve prognosis.
Adjuvant chemotherapy for younger women with node-positive breast cancer provided substantial amounts of quality-adjusted survival time, even after accounting for costs associated with toxic effects of the treatment. The Q-TWiST method represents a valuable tool for comparing treatments because it incorporates patients' perceptions of their quality of life for therapeutic decision-making.
The clinical importance of lymph-vascular space invasion and the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy were confirmed. This observation warrants a larger comparative study with adjuvant chemotherapy.
Histologic grade of 3 is an independent prognostic marker in patients with endometrial cancer confined to the uterus and adjuvant chemotherapy might improve the survival rates in these patients.
As the largest reported population analysis to date of adjuvant RT in early stage endometrial adenocarcinoma, our study reveals a statistically significant association between improved overall and relative survival and adjuvant RT in stage IC disease (grades 1 and 3-4). Future work is needed to continue to delineate clinical and biological factors, which can guide treatment decisions and account for disparities in outcome between varied subsets of patients.
Mammographic breast density and age are important predictors of the accuracy of screening mammography. Although HRT use is not an independent predictor of accuracy, it probably affects accuracy by increasing breast density.
The outreach health education program has successfully reached women living in the 18 districts in Hong Kong. It appears to be useful in raising the awareness of breast health and BSE practice among the women, but longer term follow-up is required to ascertain its sustainability.
Considering the effect of breast cancer on women of working age and the disproportionate impact on black women, more age-appropriate interventions with multiple strategies are needed to help reduce these substantial health and economic burdens, improve survival, and in turn reduce productivity costs associated with premature death.
The uniquely large and sustained effect of the PEP Intervention on breast cancer awareness increases the likelihood that a woman will present promptly should she develop breast cancer symptoms up to many years later.
Health promotion efforts need to continue to aim at increasing community understanding of potential breast cancer symptoms and encouraging women to act on potential symptoms by seeking medical advice.
An intervention to equip older women with the knowledge, skills, confidence and motivation to detect breast cancer symptoms and seek help promptly increases breast cancer awareness at 1 year. Future research will evaluate whether the intervention promotes early presentation and reduces breast cancer mortality.
The BCAM is a valid and robust measure of breast cancer awareness suitable for use in surveys of breast cancer awareness in the general population and to evaluate the impact of awareness-raising interventions.
This study is the first in New Zealand to investigate the extent of patient delay for women with self-detected breast symptoms and the factors influencing this delay. The majority of women saw their doctor within one month of self-detection of a breast symptom, however 14% delayed over three months before seeing their GP. Women who had a family member with breast cancer tended to respond to their breast symptom by delaying seeking medical attention, suggesting that risk perceptions of developing breast cancer may influence delay times in seeking medical help. Results from this study are taken from women referred by their GP to a specialist breast clinic. Certainly, further clarification of the factors that influence delay involving broader patient groups is vital to the development of public education initiatives aiming to encourage women to seek prompt medical evaluation of breast symptoms.
The study highlights that despite continued emphasis on early help seeking for breast cancer symptoms, delay is still prevalent amongst women. This reiterates the need for continued emphasis on the message of early detection for breast cancer symptoms. To this end, nurses have a significant role to play in educating women in both clinical and community settings, about breast cancer and early detection practices.
It is encouraging to see that the majority of women who find a breast symptom seek help promptly. However, a small cohort of women delay seeking help from their GP. HSB is influenced by multiple factors which can impact on patient outcomes. Findings are important for oncology nurses who have a key role to play in promoting breast awareness, prompt help seeking and early detection and treatment of breast cancer, amongst women.
A combination of public education about symptoms and empowerment to seek medical advice, as well as support at primary care level, could enhance early presentation and improve cancer outcomes.
The shorter hospital stay in the LH group compensates for the increased procedure costs, with less morbidity. LH points in the direction of cost effectiveness, however further research is warranted with a broader costs perspective including long term effects as societal benefit, quality of life and survival.
With appropriate preoperative selection, virtually any patient in any age group, with benign or malignant disease, can undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy with minimal risk of hospital mortality.
This 5-year evaluation provides strong evidence that the classification is valid and applicable worldwide in many fields of surgery. No modification in the general principle of classification is warranted in view of the use in ongoing publications and trials. Subjective, inaccurate, or confusing terms such as "minor or major" should be removed from the surgical literature.
Trocar use during laparoscopic surgical procedures led to greater translocation of free tumor cells to peritoneal wall wound sites than did laparotomy in this animal model. The addition of carbon dioxide pneumoperitoneum further increased implantation of tumor cells at trocar sites. These results provide evidence that the use of laparoscopic techniques for resection of intraperitoneal malignancy needs further long-term study.
In the United States, whites and blacks experienced opposite trends in pancreatic cancer death rates between 1970 and 2009 that are largely unexplainable by known risk factors. This study underscores the needs for urgent action to curb the increasing trends of pancreatic cancer in whites and for better understanding of the etiology of this disease.
LPD is associated with equivalent overall cost compared with OPD. While operating time and supply costs were higher for LPD, this was balanced by decreased cost of the postoperative admission.
The POPF rate was higher than expected when International Study Group on Pancreatic Fistula criteria were strictly applied, although the majority were biochemical fistulas. TachoSil had no significant effect on the rate of POPF, although there was a significant reduction of amylase level in drainage fluid on postoperative day 1.
The NCDB provides a powerful tool for examining practice patterns and outcome of cancer care in the U.S. The present report, covering one-third of all patients treated in the U.S. in 1991, confirms the advanced disease status of patients with pancreatic cancer. Minority groups present with more advanced disease and are less likely to undergo resection, currently the only potentially curative therapy. Resectability rates appear to be higher in large caseload hospitals.
Five-year survival for patients undergoing pancreatic resection for lesions deemed to be clinically "curable" intraoperatively and histologically reviewed/confirmed to be ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas is approximately 7%. Survival is greater (23%) in the subset of patients with negative nodes and no duodenal or perineural invasions. Pathologic review of all patients with pancreatic ductal cancer adenocarcinoma is mandatory if survival data are to be meaningful.
Port site metastasis after minimally invasive surgery for renal cell carcinoma is a rare occurrence with a poor prognosis. In most cases port site metastasis is not an isolated metastasis but instead is a harbinger of progressive disease. While technical factors can have a role in port site metastasis formation, it appears that biological factors like high tumor grade also contribute.
Intraoperative use of fibrin glue following distal pancreatectomy could prevent pancreatic fistula formation. This method was feasible, safe, and reliable and will complement other prophylactic methods.
During the introduction of laparoscopic surgery, the rates of cholecystectomy increased and remained stable at a higher level during the later years of the study. The rate of completed laparoscopic operations increased from 8% in 1992 to 99% in 2011.
Esophagectomy is a major surgery with considerable morbidity and potential mortality. Minimally invasive esophagectomy is a feasible approach that can be safely performed by surgeons with extensive experience in that field. Advantages include less intraoperative blood loss, a smaller incision, and a potentially faster postoperative recovery. In cancer patients, immediate oncologic goals of adequate margins and lymph node dissection can be achieved, and long-term outcome appears to be similar to that found with open approaches.
This meta-analysis of studies comparing transthoracic with transhiatal esophagectomy for cancer demonstrates no difference in 5-year survival, however lymphadenectomy and reported surgical quality was suboptimal in both groups and the transthoracic group had significantly more advanced cancer. The finding of equivalent survival should therefore be viewed with caution.
The myriad of MIE techniques complicates the debate for defining the optimal surgical approach for the treatment of esophageal cancer. Randomized controlled trials comparing MIE with conventional open esophagectomy are needed to clarify the ideal procedure with the lowest postoperative morbidity, best quality of life after surgery, and long-term survival.
In stage IA-IIA HD, the combined modality therapy reduced the risk of relapse compared to radiation alone; long-term toxicity of RT was not negligible and relapses could occur late.
This retrospective analysis suggests that excluding trials published in languages other than English has generally little effect on summary treatment effect estimates. The importance of non-English language trials is, however, difficult to predict for individual systematic reviews. Comprehensive literature searches followed by a careful assessment of trial quality are required to assess the contribution of all relevant trials, independent of language of publication.
The combination of cyclosporine, methotrexate, and prednisone was more effective in preventing acute GVHD of grades II to IV than was the combination of cyclosporine and prednisone without methotrexate.
IPCS patients reported greater satisfaction with their care experience and providers' communication, had fewer ICU admissions on readmission, and lower total health care costs following hospital discharge.
Consultation by a palliative medicine team led to improved patient outcomes in dyspnea, anxiety, and spiritual well-being, but failed to improve pain or depression. Palliative care for seriously ill outpatients can be effective, but barriers to implementation must be explored.
The combination of meditation and massage has a significantly favorable influence on overall and spiritual QOL in late-stage disease relative to standard care, or either intervention component alone.
Both programs may improve facilitation of positive growth after traumatic life experiences for those who choose to participate. MBSR may be more helpful than HA in enhancing spirituality and reducing stress, depression, and anger.
Religiosity is a complex, multidimensional construct with substantial associations with lifetime psychopathology. Some dimensions of religiosity are related to reduced risk specifically for internalizing disorders, and others to reduced risk specifically for externalizing disorders, while still others are less specific in their associations. These results do not address the nature of the causal link between religiosity and risk for illness.
A measure of spiritual belief that is not limited to religious thought, may contribute to research in psychiatry and medicine.
This study helps clarify the nature of patient preferences for spiritual discussion with physicians.
Spiritual issues were significant for many patients in their last year of life and their carers. Many health professionals lack the necessary time and skills to uncover and address such issues. Creating the opportunity for patients and carers to discuss spiritual issues, if they wish, requires highly developed communication skills and adequate time.
Findings show that religious coping plays an important role for the QOL of patients and the types of religious coping strategies used are related to better or poorer QOL.
As compared with intravenous paclitaxel plus cisplatin, intravenous paclitaxel plus intraperitoneal cisplatin and paclitaxel improves survival in patients with optimally debulked stage III ovarian cancer.
In this multi-institutional setting, it was difficult to deliver six cycles of IP therapy without complications. There appears to be an association between rectosigmoid colon resection and the inability to initiate IP therapy. Catheter choice, timing of insertion, and how surgical treatment of ovarian cancer influences the successful completion of intraperitoneal chemotherapy require further study.
At least five IP cycles are needed to achieve better survival. Nomogram can help to identify the subset of patients who can least benefit from IP chemotherapy, thus avoiding potential IP complications and help to facilitate discussion between patient and physician, risk stratification, and help to guide clinical care.
In selected patients with advanced stage EOC, upfront CRS and HIPEC provided promising results in terms of outcome. Morbidity was comparable to aggressive cytoreduction without HIPEC. Postoperative recovery delayed the initiation of adjuvant systemic chemotherapy but not sufficiently to impact negatively on survival. These data warrant further evaluation in a randomized clinical trial.
The outcome of Ewing's tumor patients who relapse after combined treatment is very poor. However, these patients may be divided into two groups: those that can be cured with traditional treatments (late relapse and/or only lung metastases), and a second group of patients (early relapses with metastases in lungs and/or other sites) who gain no benefit from traditional therapies. For the latter group, multicenter studies are needed to evaluate new strategies of treatment.
A subgroup of small-round-cell tumors identified as belonging to the Ewing family of tumors can be defined according to a specific molecular genetic lesion that is detectable by a rapid, reliable, and efficient method. This approach can be applied to small specimens obtained by fine-needle biopsies.
Long-term survival can be attained in patients with recurrent or refractory ESFT treated with HDT. However, this treatment is associated with severe toxicity. A need remains for prospective randomised clinical trials of HDT in this group of patients.
Risk stratification schemes such as this should be used to prospectively evaluate novel risk-based therapies. Studies of biologic pathways may help to refine this model.
Successful treatment of ESFT requires optimal systemic and local therapy. Both treatment modalities are intertwined and the control of both local and distant disease is the result of the combined approach.
These data suggest that although aggressive therapy may delay disease progression after relapse for some children, the course of the disease after relapse is usually fatal. International co-operative studies are needed to evaluate new strategies.
5-year OSr in Ewing sarcoma is poor (<0.2). Prognostically favorable factors are: late onset (>2 years) and strictly localized relapse.
Because of the rather short observation period. secondary malignant neoplasms (SMN) may complicate the future clinical course of some of our patients who are currently viewed as event-free survivors. EFS in AET is not improved by allogeneic SCT due to a higher complication rate. The patient group was to small to analyze for a possible graft-versus-tumor effect.
Local therapy of involved sites is important for patients with PDMES and should complement systemic treatment whenever possible.
Small primary tumor size and the presence of lung metastases alone were the only significant favorable prognostic factors. Earlier diagnosis will be the basis for better results.
Survival of our Ewing sarcoma family of tumors patients was not inferior to those reported for Euro-American cases. Collaborative studies are necessary for further improvements of outcome and we believe that our data provide a basis for future studies targeting Ewing sarcoma family of tumors.
Based on this pilot study, radiofrequency lumbar sympathectomy may be comparable to phenol lumbar sympathectomy. A larger trial is required to confirm these findings.
The technique produces sympatholysis comparable to that produced by phenol 6%, while it theoretically avoids the risk of neurologic deficits associated with chemical agents. The technique may be useful in patients for whom surgical sympathectomy is undesirable.
The data demonstrated that alterations in TPBS after sympathectomy are identical to those reported in early RSD and these alterations bear no relationship to the success of sympathectomy regarding pain relief. The mechanisms underlying alterations of TPBS as well as the potential mechanisms of sympathectomy failures are discussed.
Newly designed prospective standardized studies are required to define surgical indications and outcomes for these procedures, to provide more systematic review, and to advance the field.
Based on the case reported and systematic literature review, chemical sympathectomy seems to have at best a temporary effect, limited to cutaneous allodynia. Despite the popularity of chemical sympatholysis, only few patients and poorly defined outcomes are reported in the literature, substantiating the need for well-designed studies on the effectiveness of the procedure.
Cases of causalgia are easy to recognize and treat, with excellent results. Causalgia always follows a somatic nerve injury, usually partial, and is associated with near-constant, very severe pain distal to the injury in the extremity, varied in nature but characteristically with a predominantly burning quality. An effective anesthetic block of the appropriate part of the sympathetic chain frequently immediately relieves the pain. Most cases are cured by surgical sympathectomy.
At the end of primary treatment for breast cancer, women in all treatment groups report good emotional functioning but report decreased physical functioning, particularly among women who have a mastectomy or receive chemotherapy. Clinical interventions to address common symptoms associated with treatment should be considered to improve physical and emotional functioning at the end of primary treatment for breast cancer.
More attention to the reduction and management of disease and treatment-related symptoms could improve QOL among women with breast cancer.
The BCEI was an effective intervention in improving QOL during the first year of breast cancer survivorship. Treatment effects were durable over time.
The intervention resulted in sustained improvements in physical activity, strength, central adiposity, and social well-being with lower extremity function benefits appearing 3 months after intervention completion. Testing translation in a multisite study is warranted.
High-dose sequential therapy is superior to standard-dose MACOP-B for patients with diffuse large-cell lymphoma of the B-cell type.
Standard combination therapies remain the best choice for most patients with aggressive NHL. We recommend that patients with IPI low or low-intermediate risk not be subjected to high-dose chemotherapy and ABMT as a first-line therapy.
High-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem-cell support is superior to CHOP in adults with disseminated aggressive lymphoma.
Aggressive NHL patients do not benefit from upfront HDS/HDT.
The early application of high-dose, marrow-ablative chemoradiotherapy with autologous bone marrow transplantation does not improve the outcome in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that responds slowly to first-line CHOP chemotherapy.
The addition of rituximab to the CHOP regimen increases the complete-response rate and prolongs event-free and overall survival in elderly patients with diffuse large-B-cell lymphoma, without a clinically significant increase in toxicity.
CHOP remains the best available treatment for patients with advanced-stage intermediate-grade or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
For patients with stage III or IV diffuse mixed or diffuse large-cell lymphoma, CHOP is superior to m-BACOD, but the role of dose intensity is not yet clear.
The intention to treat approach is often inadequately described and inadequately applied. Authors should explicitly describe the handling of deviations from randomised allocation and missing responses and discuss the potential effect of any missing response. Readers should critically assess the validity of reported intention to treat analyses.
Meta-analytic results may differ depending on the use of various data sources: whether the source was from summary statistics in the literature, from individual patient data provided by trialists, or from unpublished trials.
As compared with conventional chemotherapy, treatment with high-dose chemotherapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation increases event-free and overall survival in patients with chemotherapy-sensitive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in relapse.
The international index and the age-adjusted international index should be used in the design of future therapeutic trials in patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and in the selection of appropriate therapeutic approaches for individual patients.
A dose of 2,500 IU enoxaparin/day does not cause more bleeding complications than SH 5,000 IU three times daily when used to prevent thrombosis. However, the dose of enoxaparin must be adjusted to the patient's weight.
These results prove that a single daily dose of nadroparin has been safe and efficient as a thrice-daily dose of UFH, with a better risk/benefit relationship.
Enoxaparin prophylaxis for four weeks after surgery for abdominal or pelvic cancer is safe and significantly reduces the incidence of venographically demonstrated thrombosis, as compared with enoxaparin prophylaxis for one week.
Four weeks compared with 1 week of prophylaxis with bemiparin after abdominal or pelvic cancer surgery did not significantly reduce the primary efficacy outcome, but decreased major venous thromboembolism (VTE) without increasing hemorrhagic complications.
These favorable efficacy and safety data support the use of enoxaparin (20mg twice daily for 14 days started 24-36 hours after surgery) in Japanese patients undergoing abdominal or pelvic cancer surgery.
This guide proposes methods for handling participants excluded from analyses of randomized trials. These methods can help in establishing the extent to which risk of bias impacts meta-analysis results.
Our approach provides a useful, reasonable, and relatively simple, quantitative guidance for judging the impact of risk of bias as a result of missing participant data in systematic reviews of continuous outcomes.
An accurate knowledge of evidence-based risk factors is important in predicting and preventing postoperative DVT, and can be incorporated into a decision support system for appropriate thromboprophylaxis use.
All gynecologic cancer patients should receive VTE prophylaxis. Although heparin, LMWH, and SCD have been shown to be safe and effective, due to the paucity of data in the gynecologic oncology literature, no one prevention modality can be considered superior at this time. Adequately powered RCTs are urgently needed to determine the optimal regimen in these high-risk patients.
The use of a narrow definition of thromboembolism lead to a pattern of risk factors which was partly different from that found in previous studies, which were usually based on diagnosis with the 125I-fibrinogen uptake test.
Optimal thromboprophylaxis in nonorthopedic surgical patients will consider the risks of VTE and bleeding complications as well as the values and preferences of individual patients.
Our review disclosed no statistically significant difference in HAT between LMWH and UH and insufficient evidence to conclude that HIT and HITT rates were different between them. There was no evidence from randomized comparative trials to support the contention that patients receiving treatment for PE or DVT with UH are more prone to these complications than those receiving LMWH.
In our trial, retinol palmitate significantly reduced rectal symptoms of radiation proctopathy, perhaps because of wound-healing effects. The current results can serve as the foundation for future trials examining retinol palmitate in the multi-institutional setting.
(1) Bipolar or heater probes were safe and effective relative to medical therapy for palliation of patients with lower gastrointestinal bleeding from radiation telangiectasias, and (2) all patients improved in ability to travel and exercise and in their overall impression of their health.
Short chain fatty acid enemas can accelerate the process of healing in chronic radiation proctitis, but treatment has to be continuous if a complete and sustained clinical, endoscopic, and histologic response is to be obtained.
This experience has been used to develop a management protocol for patients with this serious complication.
Argon beam coagulation is a safe, well tolerated, and effective treatment option in symptomatic radiation proctitis.
Endoscopic balloon dilation of strictures in the rectum is a safe method. The method is simple and can be performed on an outpatient basis. The technique shows good results even in narrow strictures.
Topical (4 percent) formalin is safe and effective in treatment of radiation-induced hemorrhagic proctitis. A single treatment will stop bleeding in 75 percent of patients.
Argon plasma coagulation appears to be a simple, safe, and effective technique in the management of hemorrhagic radiation-induced proctosigmoiditis.
There may be more than one late (chronic) proctitis syndrome which may be linked in greater or lesser degrees to acute proctitis symptoms occurring during therapy. Urgency is a common late symptom which often has an important impact on normal daily life and deserves recognition in late normal tissue scoring systems. Assessment of the incidence of bleeding as a measure of late rectal morbidity following prostate irradiation may underestimate the impact of these chronic effects. Confirmatory studies are necessary.
Occult sphincter defects are common after vaginal delivery, especially forceps delivery, and are often associated with disturbance of bowel function.
3 MU interferon alpha2a given s.c. three times a week for 2 years significantly improved OS and DFS in patients with melanoma that had spread to the regional lymph nodes. Interestingly, the addition of DTIC reversed the beneficial effect of adjuvant interferon alpha2a therapy.
IFN-alpha appears to be effective as adjuvant therapy for high risk melanoma patients and the risk/benefit ratio appears to be very favorable. The authors' next goal is to separate those patients who might benefit from adjuvant therapy from those who are cured after the surgical intervention only.
Adjuvant treatment with IFN improves RFS in melanoma patients with early stage III disease. The results of the current study should help guide management when considering adjuvant treatment for these patients.
The induction dose of 15 × 10(6)U/m(2) and the maintenance dose of 9 × 10(6)U were tolerable, which may be the optional dose intensity for adjuvant IFN-α-2b therapy in Chinese high risk AM population. No statistical significance was detected in RFS between the 4-week and 1-year regimen while a 1-year regimen may show clinical benefits in patients with stage IIIb-IIIc AM or with ≥ 3 nodal metastases.
CpG ODNs represent potent immune stimulants that elicit antitumor effects through STAT1-mediated signal transduction.
Neurologic dysfunction associated with IFN therapy was mild. Psychiatric symptoms and neuropsychologic impairment were not found. Levels of fatigue and anxiety were increased in the IFN group but without a sizable impact on quality of life measures.
Vemurafenib produced improved rates of overall and progression-free survival in patients with previously untreated melanoma with the BRAF V600E mutation. (Funded by Hoffmann-La Roche; BRIM-3 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Ipilimumab, with or without a gp100 peptide vaccine, as compared with gp100 alone, improved overall survival in patients with previously treated metastatic melanoma. Adverse events can be severe, long-lasting, or both, but most are reversible with appropriate treatment. (Funded by Medarex and Bristol-Myers Squibb; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In patients with high-risk resected melanoma, HDI is effective adjuvant therapy with strong evidence for improved RFS and evidence for moderate improvement in OS based on two prospective randomized studies but not the pooled analysis. Analyses of predictors of relapse and response are now needed to improve the therapeutic value of this modality.
These data demonstrate that SOCS proteins are expressed in human melanoma cell lines and their modulation can influence the responsiveness of melanoma cells to IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma.
Dacarbazine generally produces poor outcomes. Adding other therapies offers minimal clinical advantages (possibly with interferons). In general, study quality was poor and sample sizes were small. This meta-analysis highlights the unmet need for effective treatment options for advanced melanoma.
Our findings suggest that CTC might have a clinically valuable prognostic power in patients with melanoma. However, the heterogeneity of the studies thus far published warrants caution not to overestimate the favorable results of pooled data.
CMIS is increasingly diagnosed and is often overtreated, although it does not affect the life expectancy of its carriers. Patients with CMIS have an increased risk of developing invasive melanoma (which warrants their enrollment in screening programs) but also a reduced risk of some epithelial cancers, which raises the intriguing hypothesis that genetic/environmental risk factors for some tumors may oppose the pathogenesis of others.
The lack of DSS data from all the available RCT does not allow to draw definitive conclusions. However, current evidence appears sufficient to question the common belief that narrow excision margins are as safe as wide margins in the management of primary melanoma, that calls for further investigation in this field.
The staging of intermediate-thickness (1.2 to 3.5 mm) primary melanomas according to the results of sentinel-node biopsy provides important prognostic information and identifies patients with nodal metastases whose survival can be prolonged by immediate lymphadenectomy. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Although no significant survival difference was observed in either series, the pooling of summary data from all the studies that dealt with this issue suggested that SNB-guided CLND is associated with a significantly better outcome compared with TLND for clinically evident lymph node disease.
High and low doses of IFN-alpha significantly decrease the RR, but the OS does not seem to be improved.
This study demonstrates the noninferiority and safety of piperacillin-tazobactam monotherapy, compared with cefepime, for the empirical treatment of high-risk febrile neutropenic patients with cancer.
Cefepime appears to be as effective as ceftazidime in the initial treatment of febrile episodes in adult cancer patients with chemotherapy-associated neutropenia of modest duration.
PIP-TAZ is as effective as IMI and it constitutes a good choice as an initial empiric monotherapy of febrile neutropenia.
Although larger studies are necessary, panipenem appeared to be as effective and safe as cefepime for empirical monotherapy in the treatment of adult cancer patients with febrile neutropenia.
The effect of empirical regimen of piperacillin-tazobactam regimen is equivalent to carbapenem in adult febrile neutropenic patients.
Overall, in a multifactorial analysis that included efficacy, toxicity, and cost, the imipenem and aztreonam regimens were comparable.
Single-agent therapy with imipenem is as effective as more conventional combination antibiotic therapy for the empirical treatment of febrile episodes in neutropenic patients with cancer.
PIP/TAZO treatment was as effective and safe as CEF monotherapy as an initial empirical regimen in pediatric cancer patients with fever and neutropenia.
Carbapenem monotherapy, as recommended in the 2002 IDSA guidelines, is effective treatment for the infections most often encountered at our center. Combination therapy with an aminoglycoside should be considered when using ceftazidime, cefepime or piperacillin-tazobactam, particularly in high-risk patients. Vancomycin should be used if a Gram-positive organism is suspected or isolated.
More judicious use of third-generation cephalosporins may decrease the incidence of nosocomial multiresistant Enterobacter spp., which in turn may result in a lower mortality for Enterobacter bacteremia. When Enterobacter organisms are isolated from blood, it may be prudent to avoid third-generation cephalosporin therapy regardless of in-vitro susceptibility.
These revised definitions of invasive fungal disease are intended to advance clinical and epidemiological research and may serve as a useful model for defining other infections in high-risk patients.
The administration of inadequate antimicrobial treatment to critically ill patients with bloodstream infections is associated with a greater hospital mortality compared with adequate antimicrobial treatment of bloodstream infections. These data suggest that clinical efforts should be aimed at reducing the administration of inadequate antimicrobial treatment to hospitalized patients with bloodstream infections, especially individuals infected with antibiotic-resistant bacteria and Candida species.
Gram-negative organisms are persistently predominant in our center. In a developing country like Lebanon with limited resources, lower mortality rates commensurate with worldwide reports were successfully achieved in this high-risk patient population. Protocols and guidelines should be adapted to the characteristics of individual institutions to ensure delivery of appropriate care to febrile neutropenic patients.
The study indicated that tazobactam significantly enhanced the antibacterial activity of piperacillin against iAmpC P. aeruginosa; clavulanate had synergy with the antibacterial activity of ticarcillin at low concentration, but had no effect on ticarcillin at high concentration due to AmpC induction by clavulanate.
For patients with fever and neutropenia there is no clinical advantage in treatment with beta lactam-aminoglycoside combination therapy. Broad spectrum beta lactams as monotherapy should be regarded as the standard of care for such patients.
The use of glycopeptides can be safely deferred until the documentation of a resistant Gram-positive infection.
Improved infection-control measures for neutropenic cancer patients in our center are needed. Empiric antibiotic treatment should be tailored to patients' risk for multidrug-resistant organisms. Individual hospitals should monitor infection epidemiology among cancer patients to guide empiric antibiotic treatment.
When given as IBA or CI for E. coli and K. pneumoniae, cefepime should be successful in achieving the bactericidal target. For P. aeruginosa higher doses of cefepime (>4 g/day) are required to achieve the required PTA expectation value. Cefepime fails to achieve the bactericidal target even when administered at high doses, e.g. 6 g/day, for A. baumannii.
The AAA study will provide important information concerning the efficacy of using angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to offset the effects of late anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
These preliminary results suggest that carvedilol does not significantly improve clinical heart failure outcomes in children and adolescents with symptomatic systolic heart failure. However, given the lower than expected event rates, the trial may have been underpowered. There may be a differential effect of carvedilol in children and adolescents based on ventricular morphology.
In the current era of management of heart failure, D-CMP carries a better prognosis than previously described. Early addition of BB may further improve LVEF.
In cancer patients developing AC-CMP, LVEF recovery and cardiac event reduction may be achieved when cardiac dysfunction is detected early and a modern HF treatment is promptly initiated.
Valsartan significantly reduces the combined end point of mortality and morbidity and improves clinical signs and symptoms in patients with heart failure, when added to prescribed therapy. However, the post hoc observation of an adverse effect on mortality and morbidity in the subgroup receiving valsartan, an ACE inhibitor, and a beta-blocker raises concern about the potential safety of this specific combination.
The combination of a beta-blocker and enalapril was associated with a synergistic reduction in the risk of death in the SOLVD Prevention trial.
Tested in more than 10,000 patients, beta-blockers reduce morbidity and mortality in class II through IV heart failure. Along with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, digoxin, and diuretics, beta-blockers have strengthened the armamentarium to improve clinical outcomes of heart failure patients. The science supporting beta-blockers must be translated into practice safely and rationally if the agents are to achieve their full potential.
Changes in systolic and diastolic function are noted in asymptomatic patients with normal ejection fraction late after low-dose anthracycline treatment. This confirms that subclinical LV dysfunction is present in patients after low-dose anthracycline treatment during childhood. The long-term significance of these findings warrants further follow-up.
Total mortality and hospitalization for congestive heart failure are significantly reduced by ACE inhibitors with consistent effects in a broad range of patients.
Due to the displaced cardiotoxic manifestation, functional monitoring in close connection with anthracycline administration appears to be a poorly effective method while later monitoring is essential. Current monitoring recommendations should therefore be revised.
The reported frequency of subclinical cardiotoxicity shows a wide variation. Well designed studies with accurate and precise outcome measurements in well described groups of patients, after a sufficiently long follow-up period, are needed to obtain more insight into the frequency and importance of risk factors, and the clinical consequences of anthracycline-related subclinical cardiotoxicity.
Doxorubicin therapy in childhood impairs myocardial growth in a dose-related fashion and results in a progressive increase in left ventricular afterload sometimes accompanied by reduced contractility. We hypothesize that the loss of myocytes during doxorubicin therapy in childhood might result in inadequate left ventricular mass and clinically important heart disease in later years.
GH therapy among anthracycline-treated survivors of childhood cancer increased LV wall thickness, but the effect was lost after therapy was discontinued. The therapy did not affect the progressive LV dysfunction.
Val-HeFT has provided the first placebo-controlled outcome data demonstrating a favorable effect of an angiotensin receptor blocker on mortality and morbidity in patients with HF not treated with ACE inhibitors. Based on these results, valsartan appears to be an effective therapy in ACE inhibitor-intolerant patients.
Carvedilol reduces the risk or death as well as the risk of hospitalization for cardiovascular causes in patients with heart failure who are receiving treatment with digoxin, diuretics, and an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor.
These findings indicate that, in addition to its favorable effects on survival, carvedilol produces important clinical benefits in patients with moderate to severe heart failure treated with digoxin, diuretics, and an ACE inhibitor.
Modest benefits in quality of life for > or = 1 year occurred when patients with left ventricular dysfunction and symptomatic heart failure were treated with enalapril. No apparent beneficial or adverse effect on quality of life was observed with enalapril in asymptomatic patients with left ventricular dysfunction.
The addition of enalapril to conventional therapy significantly reduced mortality and hospitalizations for heart failure in patients with chronic congestive heart failure and reduced ejection fractions.
The angiotensin-converting--enzyme inhibitor enalapril significantly reduced the incidence of heart failure and the rate of related hospitalizations, as compared with the rates in the group given placebo, among patients with asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction. There was also a trend toward fewer deaths due to cardiovascular causes among the patients who received enalapril.
Survivors who have received low-dose anthracycline require cardiac surveillance infrequently. In good prognosis tumors, cumulative anthracycline dose should be maintained at < 250 mg/m(2).
Individuals with ALVD in the community are at high risk of CHF and death, even when only mild impairment of EF is present. Additional studies are needed to define optimal therapy for mild ALVD.
This study failed to demonstrate that RH after EBRT-CT is superior to standard BCT.
Results of the current trial seem to suggest that completion HT had no therapeutic impact in patients with clinical and radiological complete response after CRT (but this conclusion is limited by the lack of power).
Adding weekly infusions of cisplatin to pelvic radiotherapy followed by hysterectomy significantly reduced the risk of disease recurrence and death in women with bulky stage IB cervical cancers.
This series confirms the high rate of nodal spread in patients with bulky residual cervical disease after chemoradiotherapy. Furthermore, patients who underwent hysterectomy had a high complication rate. Only two patients are alive and disease free. The results of surgery are disappointing; surgery does not seem to improve the survival of these patients.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by radical surgery is feasible in approximately half of patients affected by FIGO stage IVA cervical cancer. Overall survival rates appear similar to those reported with concomitant chemoradiotherapy. Patients who are amenable to radical surgery after chemotherapy may benefit from long-term survival rates.
Radical hysterectomy after CRT is known to be difficult with significant morbidity rates and remains controversial in comparison to exclusive CRT. TLRH after preoperative CRT is feasible for patients with locally advanced cervical cancer in 85% of the cases. For these patients, TLRH compared with ARH was associated with favorable surgical outcome with comparable oncological results.
Failure to achieve clinical complete response to treatment and, to a lesser extent, more advanced stage, and aortic lymphadenectomy, were associated with a higher risk of developing any grade as well as ≥grade 2 complications.
Results appear to suggest that the chemo-surgical approach is an effective therapeutic option for patients with stage Ib2-IIb cervical cancer and that pathological response to NACT is the strongest prognostic factor for the outcome.
Adjuvant surgery may improve the outcome of patients with bulky residual tumour after chemoradiation for locally advanced cervical cancer, allowing a 5-year OS of 55.6% after curative intervention.
Treatment decisions should be individualized and based on multiple factors including the stage of the disease, age, medical condition of the patient, tumor-related factors and treatment preferences, to yield the best cure with minimum complications.
The addition of chemotherapy with fluorouracil and cisplatin to treatment with external-beam and intracavitary radiation significantly improved survival among women with locally advanced cervical cancer.
LRH has similar therapeutic efficacy to ORH in patients with bulky early-stage cervical cancer. However, LRH has more favorable surgical outcomes. Therefore, LRH is not only a reasonable alternative to ORH but also the preferred surgical procedure for these patients.
The national call and recall system and incentive payments to general practitioners increased coverage to around 85%. This resulted in falls in incidence of invasive disease in all regions of England and in all age groups from 30 to 74. The falls in mortality in older women were largely unrelated to screening, but without screening there might have been 800 more deaths from cervical cancer in women under 55 in 1997.
Patients with advanced cancer who reported having EOL conversations with physicians had significantly lower health care costs in their final week of life. Higher costs were associated with worse quality of death.
The evidence for benefit from specialized palliative care is sparse and limited by methodological shortcomings. Carefully planned trials, using a standardized palliative care intervention and measures constructed specifically for this population, are needed.
A self-paced, home-based walking exercise program can help manage symptoms and improve physical functioning during radiation therapy.
Participation in an upper-body exercise program caused no changes in arm circumference or arm volume in women with lymphedema after breast cancer, and they may have experienced an increase in quality of life. Additional studies should be done in this area to determine the optimum training program.
The low-to-moderate intensity, home-based exercise program was feasible for some women with breast cancer receiving chemotherapy. The results suggest that exercise may affect quality of life and that this effect may be mediated by the effects of exercise on fatigue. Better retention of functional ability and better weight control are additional possible benefits of exposing breast cancer patients to increased exercise. A randomized, controlled clinical trial is needed to establish confidence in these observed relationships.
The impact of exercise on fatigue was significant and suggests the effectiveness of a low- to moderate-intensity regular exercise program in maintaining functional ability and reducing fatigue in women with breast cancer receiving chemotherapy.
Mild to moderate aerobic exercise may be of therapeutic value to breast cancer survivors with respect to depressive and anxiety symptoms but not to self-esteem. A physician's recommendation to exercise appears to be an important factor in a patient's exercise adherence.
Delayed nausea is a significant problem for women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. IMPLICATION FOR NURSING: Oncology nurses can use the results from this study to provide anticipatory guidance for patients undergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer.
PA levels were reduced significantly after patients were diagnosed with breast carcinoma. Greater decreases in PA observed among heavier patients implied a potential for greater weight gain among women who already were overweight. Randomized, controlled trials are needed to evaluate how PA may improve the prognosis for patients with breast carcinoma.
The panel concluded that the available evidence supports a variety of interventions for treating cancer patients' pain, depression, and fatigue. Clinicians should routinely use brief assessment tools to ask patients about pain, depression, and fatigue and to initiate evidence-based treatments. Assessment should include discussion about common symptoms experienced by cancer patients, and these discussions should continue over the duration of the illness. Impediments to effective symptom management in cancer patients can arise from different sources and interactions among providers, patients and their families, and the health care system. Numerous factors could interfere with adequate symptom management. Among these factors are incomplete effectiveness of some treatments, a lack of sufficient knowledge regarding effective treatment strategies, patient reluctance to report symptoms to caregivers, a belief that such symptoms are simply a part of the cancer experience that must be tolerated, and inadequate coverage and reimbursement for some treatments. Additional research is needed on the definition, occurrence, the treatment of pain, depression, and fatigue, alone and in combination, in adequately funded prospective studies. The panel also concluded that the state of the science in cancer symptom management should be reassessed periodically.
Social cognitive theory may provide a useful framework for understanding physical activity among patients with breast cancer during treatment, but correlation strength varies with physical activity measurement type.
With a 6-year follow-up the combination of VP16 and carboplatin given at conventional doses is safe on renal and hearing functions in infants with unresectable neuroblastomas treated according to SFOP NB90.
While continuous cisplatin infusions are less nephrotoxic than repeated prolonged infusions, we observed considerable ototoxicity in patients treated with continuous cisplatin infusions, which necessitates further evaluations on the tolerance of continuous cisplatin infusions in children.
Children treated with cisplatin at cumulative doses approaching 400 mg/m require long-term surveillance to avoid overlooking hearing deficits. Carboplatin, at a standard dose, does not appear to be a significant risk factor for ototoxicity even in patients who have already been treated with cisplatin.
BioCT is not better than CT alone; the trend in favor of the bioCT in terms of RR did not translate into better TTP or OS. Therefore, bioCT cannot be recommended as standard first-line therapy for metastatic melanoma.
Histopathologic margin affects the risk of LR. However, if the in vivo margin is > or =1 cm, it no longer predicts risk of LR. Patient survival is not affected by margin.
Low doses of platelets administered as a prophylactic transfusion led to a decreased number of platelets transfused per patient but an increased number of transfusions given. At doses between 1.1x10(11) and 4.4x10(11) platelets per square meter, the number of platelets in the prophylactic transfusion had no effect on the incidence of bleeding. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Among critically ill patients, most PLT transfusions were administered to prevent, rather than to treat, bleeding, with a transfusion trigger of 40 to 50 x 10(9) per L. Nearly half of ICU patients who received transfusions failed to mount a PLT count increase after a single transfusion. Prospective studies are needed to determine the effects of PLT transfusions on bleeding and predictors of ineffective transfusions in the ICU.
Patients with lymphoma or solid tumors who are at high risk of bleeding can be identified reliably on Day 1 of a chemotherapy cycle. An individualized, BRI-based approach to bleeding prophylaxis provides a highly sensitive and specific alternative to traditional, nonindividualized platelet threshold strategies.
Although thrombocytopenia is a common complication of chemotherapy, only 40% of cycles with thrombocytopenia would be considered high or very high cost. Interventions targeted at this subset of cycles could significantly reduce the cost of thrombocytopenia provided they are initiated early enough in the chemotherapy experience to be effective.
The use of PLT mass-based NICU transfusion guidelines was associated with fewer PLT transfusions and no recognized increase in hemorrhagic problems.
Bioreactive substances in the plasma supernatant of the platelet product cause most febrile reactions associated with platelet transfusions. Removing the plasma supernatant before transfusion can minimize or prevent these reactions.
When patients were supported with comparable doses of PCT or conventional PLTs, the mean number of PLT transfusions was similar. Lower CIs and shorter transfusion intervals for PCT PLTs suggest that some PLT injury may occur during PCT. This injury does not result in a detectable increase in bleeding, however.
Patients who bled were usually placed on a higher threshold before the onset of their major bleeding event and were not exposed to additional risk of bleeding from thrombocytopenia. Similarity in bleeding incidence between study periods appears to associate with adjustments to high-risk conditions and may not reflect consequences of the lower transfusion threshold.
There exist a paucity of data to recommend optimal therapeutic platelet count targets in patients with active GI bleeding. Based principally on expert opinion recommendations, we propose a count of 50×10/L. Some professional associations have suggested in very specific clinical settings (postcardiopulmonary bypass surgery or central nervous system trauma) a higher value of up to 100×10/L. Properly designed randomized trials are required to more precisely address this important clinical question.
PLT transfusion in the perioperative period of CABG was associated with increased risk for serious adverse events. PLT transfusion may be a surrogate marker for sicker patients and have no causal role in the outcomes observed. However, a direct contribution to outcomes remains possible.
It is unclear whether a no-prophylaxis policy saves costs overall. In chemo/alloHSCT patients cost savings are apparent but their magnitude is sensitive to a number of variables and must be considered alongside clinical data showing increased bleeding rates. In autoHSCT patients savings generated through lower PLT use in no-prophylaxis arm were offset by cost increases elsewhere, for example, additional RBC transfusions. Cost-effectiveness analyses of alternative PLT transfusion policies simultaneously considering costs and patient-reported outcomes are warranted.
The results of our study support the need for the continued use of prophylaxis with platelet transfusion and show the benefit of such prophylaxis for reducing bleeding, as compared with no prophylaxis. A significant number of patients had bleeding despite prophylaxis. (Funded by the National Health Service Blood and Transplant Research and Development Committee and the Australian Red Cross Blood Service; TOPPS Controlled-Trials.com number, ISRCTN08758735.).
A pool consisting of 5 units of WBC-reduced PCs gave a median platelet increment of 19 x 10(9) per L in these thrombocytopenic patients and has a median WBC content 1 to 2 log below the accepted threshold for primary alloimmunization or CMV transmission.
The provision of either fresh and/or WBC-reduced PLTs may decrease the frequency of PLT transfusion reactions and improve PLT transfusion efficacy.
Reduction of leukocytes by filtration and ultraviolet B irradiation of platelets are equally effective in preventing alloantibody-mediated refractoriness to platelets during chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia. Platelets obtained by apheresis from single random donors provided no additional benefit as compared with pooled platelet concentrates from random donors.
There is considerable potential for decreased use of platelet transfusions with a consequent improvement in their appropriate use and cost reduction.
This study has highlighted differences in the method of recording and grading bleeding, which may account for some of the variation in reported bleeding rates. To ensure that differences between studies can be attributed to trial interventions or types of participant included, this study group is developing consensus bleeding definitions, a standardized approach to record and grade bleeding, and guidance notes to educate and train bleeding assessors.
T-cell depleted hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from unrelated donors can result in good overall survival and low non-relapse mortality for adults with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia in first complete remission and merits prospective evaluation.
The bacterial screening system has removed a significant number, but not all bacterially contaminated platelet components from the supply. The sample volume is an important factor in sensitivity due to the low number of bacteria in a platelet component pack on day 1. An effective notification and recall system is a critical part of the bacterial screening system.
Monthly infusions of pamidronate provide significant protection against skeletal complications and improve the quality of life of patients with stage III multiple myeloma.
The monthly use of zoledronic acid for 1 year in patients with AM reduced the development of SREs at progression but did not influence the natural history of the disease.
A 5-minute infusion of 2.0-4.0 mg zoledronic acid was at least as effective as a 2-hour 90-mg pamidronate infusion in treatment of osteolytic metastases. A 0.4-mg dose of zoledronic acid was significantly less effective. Both zoledronic acid and pamidronate were well tolerated.
Long-term follow-up data confirm that zoledronic acid was more effective than pamidronate in reducing the risk of skeletal complications in patients with bone metastases from breast carcinoma and was of similar efficacy in patients with multiple myeloma.
The current data indicate that treatment with 4 mg of Zol was more effective than 90 mg of Pam in reducing skeletal complications in a subset of patients with breast carcinoma who had at least 1 osteolytic lesion at study entry.
These results suggest that pamidronate may have a synergistic action with chemotherapy in decreasing osteoclastic activity, in reducing markers of myeloma activity and myeloma related pain and in improving the quality of life in patients with MM.
These results suggest that a monthly dose of 90 mg of pamidronate is more effective than 4 mg of ibandronate in reducing osteoclast activity, bone resorption, IL-6, and possibly tumour burden in MM. TRACP-5b has also proved to be a useful new marker for monitoring bisphosphonates treatment in MM.
Good response to combined pamidronate and thalidomide therapy can be expected in at least 50% of patients with treatment-resistant multiple myeloma with advanced osteolytic lesions.
In the first year of treatment monthly intravenous pamidronate administration as an adjunct to chemotherapy in patients with advanced multiple myeloma with osteolysis is an efficient approach in prevention and treatment of hyperacalcaemia, hypercalciuria and bone pain. It also shows some preventive effect on bone lesion occurrence.
The home treatment with zoledronic acid seems safe. The appropriate use of biphosphonates in such a new setting needs a criterion to identify the subset of patients with bone metastases confined to home who can really benefit by this treatment.
Among all bone resorption markers, urinary NTX and serum crosslaps seem to be strictly related to the extent of bone involvement in MM. Combined thalidomide + dexamethasone and zoledronic acid seem to be highly effective in reducing bone resorption in sensitive patients, although the relative contribution of each drug cannot yet be determined.
Our experience confirms that bisphosphonate therapy contributes to the pathogenesis of mandibular and maxillary osteonecrosis. Surgery seems to be necessary in the majority of the patients, although the most adequate procedure is far from being standardized and prevention seems to play a pivotal role.
Jaw osteonecrosis appears to be associated with the intra-venous use of bisphosphonates. Dental professionals should be aware of this potentially serious complication in periodontal patients receiving long-term treatment with bisphosphonates.
Direct evidence from good-quality RCTs should be used wherever possible. Without this evidence, it may be necessary to look for indirect comparisons from RCTs. However, the results may be susceptible to bias. When making indirect comparisons within a systematic review, an adjusted indirect comparison method should ideally be used employing the random effects model. If both direct and indirect comparisons are possible within a review, it is recommended that these be done separately before considering whether to pool data. There is a need to evaluate methods for the analysis of indirect comparisons for continuous data and for empirical research into how different methods of indirect comparison perform in cases where there is a large treatment effect. Further study is needed into when it is appropriate to look at indirect comparisons and when to combine both direct and indirect comparisons. Research into how evidence from indirect comparisons compares to that from non-randomised studies may also be warranted. Investigations using individual patient data from a meta-analysis of several RCTs using different protocols and an evaluation of the impact of choosing different binary effect measures for the inverse variance method would also be useful.
This finding indicates that DM may be a risk factor for BON and that DM patients treated with bisphosphonates should be carefully monitored. We discuss here the bone metabolic pathways characteristic of DM patients and the way in which these pathways can augment the effects of bisphosphonates.
Clinicians and dentists should have in mind this new complication of bisphosphonate administration to identify and treat osteonecrosis of the jaws.
Complete prevention of this complication in not currently possible. However, pre-therapy dental care reduces this incidence, and non-surgical dental procedures can prevent new cases. For those who present with painful exposed bone, effective control to a pain free state without resolution of the exposed bone is 90.1% effective using a regimen of antibiotics along with 0.12% chlorohexidine antiseptic mouth.
Before the prescription of bisphosphonates for bone disease the patient should be made dentally fit so that the need for subsequent dental extractions is minimized. Appropriate informed consent for the risk of ONJ for different bisphosphonates, for osteoporosis, and malignancy both in general and in particular for dental extractions can be provided using this data.
The findings in the patient population combined with recent literature reports suggested that bisphosphonates may contribute to the pathogenesis of the oral lesions. The risk factors and precise mechanism involved in the formation of the osteonecrosis are not known. This condition represents a new oral complication in patients with cancer and can be termed bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis. Lesions in patients with osteoporosis are worrisome and need to be further evaluated.
Increasing reports of bisphosphonate associated osteomyelitis and the difficulty in treating these patients requires further investigation to identify the subset of patients who are at increased risk for this process. The optimal and safe duration of treatment with bisphosphonates needs to be determined.
The most common finding in bisphosphonate-associated osteonecrosis was osseous sclerosis. This varied from subtle thickening of the lamina dura and alveolar crest to attenuated osteopetrosis-like sclerosis.
In view of the current trend of increasing and widespread use of chronic bisphosphonate therapy, our observation of an associated risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw should alert practitioners to monitor for this previously unrecognized potential complication. An early diagnosis might prevent or reduce the morbidity resulting from advanced destructive lesions of the jaw bone.
Bayesian methodology offers a multitude of ways to present results from MTM models, as it enables a natural and easy estimation of all measures based on probabilities, ranks, or predictions.
Lesions smaller than 1 cm and lesions that were subject to medical treatments are associated with a better outcome. Surgical treatments appear to be non-beneficial for BROJ.
This is the first large institutional study in the United States with respect to the epidemiology of ONJ and oral bisphosphonate use. Further studies along this line will help delineate more clearly the relationship between oral BP use and ONJ.
Follow-up colonoscopic examinations may be warranted in patients with tubulovillous, villous, or large adenomas in the rectosigmoid, particularly if the adenomas are also multiple. In patients with only a single, small tubular adenoma that is only mildly or moderately dysplastic (43 percent of our series), however, surveillance may not be of value because the risk of cancer is so low.
Colonoscopic polypectomy substantially reduced the incidence of colorectal cancer in the cohort compared with that expected in the general population. These results are of particular relevance considering that those with adenomas are at increased risk of colorectal cancer and that this retrospective study was performed on data obtained in standard clinical practice. This observation strengthens the concept of effective population screening in view of the fact that adenomatous polyps are the most frequent neoplastic outcome of screening and their removal is associated with a decrease in the incidence of colorectal cancer.
Colonoscopic polypectomy is associated with a 10% rate of complications, but three-quarters of these are of minor clinical significance. More than 90% of the complications can be managed conservatively if adequate endoscopic expertise is available. Guidelines for intensified follow-up after polypectomy should be based on the size, location, and number of a patient's polyps.
Endoscopic procedures of the large bowel reduce the risk for developing colon and rectal cancer by 50%, their protective influence lasting 6 years.
Although 39 percent of patients had neoplasms above the rectosigmoid, only 16 percent had an advanced proximal neoplasm without an index polyp in the rectosigmoid. This gives a figure on which to base the evaluation of screening sigmoidoscopy programs against those of screening colonoscopy.
Screening for colorectal cancer appears cost-effective compared with no screening, but a single optimal strategy cannot be determined from the currently available data. Additional data regarding adherence with screening over time, complication rates in real-world settings, and colorectal cancer biology are needed. Additional analyses are necessary to determine optimal ages of initiation and cessation.
The histology and size of benign neoplasms found on flexible sigmoidoscopy predict findings on baseline colonoscopy.
The data of this 10-year prospective, randomized clinical trial suggest that hepatic cryosurgery is effective in the treatment of resectable and nonresectable LM. The results show intraoperative tumor reduction (> or = 90% < or = 97%) and extended higher survival in these patients. The study indicated a 5-year and 10-year survival rate of 44% and 19% after cryosurgery, respectively.
RFA is a safe, well-tolerated treatment for patients with unresectable hepatic malignancies. This study indicates that (1) complications occur much less frequently following RFA of liver tumors compared with cryoablation of liver tumors, and (2) early local tumor recurrence is infrequent following RFA.
Multiple cycles of dose-intensive therapy with doxorubicin and high dose ifosfamide can be administered safely with PBSC support. Nephrotoxicity is dose-limiting for ifosfamide at total doses of 16 g/m2. Multiple cycles of high dose chemotherapy at short treatment intervals using ifosfamide at a dose of 14 g/m2 should be investigated further in a neoadjuvant setting in patients with STS.
This clinically unique case of synovial sarcoma highlights how the use of now readily available molecular techniques will allow more accurate appraisals of the incidence and anatomic distribution of soft tissue neoplasms-information that bears upon pathogenesis and treatment. This case confirms the utility of high-dose alkylator-based therapy for synovial sarcoma. It also demonstrates that with nonlocalized solid tumors, the eradication of minimal residual disease remains an elusive goal. One alternative involves immunologic attack against markers derived from tumor-specific chromosomal defects such as those found in our patient.
Primary sarcomas of the lung are a rare and aggressive malignancy. Treatment and prognosis do not differ from other soft tissue sarcomas.
PBSC-supported multicycle chemotherapy is a feasible method to increase chemotherapy DI for pediatric patients with metastatic sarcomas. Although the CR rate compared favorably with previously reported response rates, the 2-year EFS rate was similar to that achieved with other intensive regimens.
Intrabdominal desmoplastic small round cell tumor is a highly aggressive malignancy with a very poor prognosis. Multiagent chemotherapy usually leads initially to a temporary regression of the tumor, but recurrence is the rule. Radical surgical excision, radiotherapy and peripheral blood stem cell transplantation does not seem to improve prognosis significantly. Despite all therapeutic modalities the outcome is dismal and surgical efforts can be considered only as palliative.
Patients with localized disease and complete surgical resection were most likely to survive long-term. Consolidation with HSCT may benefit selected patients with advanced disease stage. International collaboration and further understanding of the biology of this disease is necessary to improve the survival of children with MRT.
The feasibility of administering intensive chemotherapy regimens like VACIE was dependent in part on the timing of local control therapy. This regimen was associated with significant toxicity.
The authors accomplished the objective of improving the rate of necrosis with intensification of preoperative therapy. However, TTP and survival rates remained poor. The toxicity profile of this regimen is prohibitive and alternative strategies need to be investigated.
Detection of the EWS-WT1-GFT plays a major role in the diagnosis of DSRCT. No survival difference was observed according to extent of surgery, but complete surgery seemed to offer the best chance of long-term survival. High-dose chemotherapy or local radiotherapy did not appear to improve survival in this retrospective analysis, but larger prospective studies are needed to provide definitive conclusions on the role of these treatments.
DSRCT is an aggressive malignancy that does not respond well to contemporary treatments, and patients who do not enter complete remission after initial chemotherapy and surgery appear to have a particularly dismal outcome. Patients with localized extra-abdominal disease have a better prognosis, most likely due to increased feasibility of resection. Better understanding of molecular and genetic mechanisms of tumorigenesis and treatment-related changes may contribute to development of more effective therapy for DSRCT.
Pegfilgrastim following dose intensive chemotherapy for solid tumors is feasible in children, including those <45 kg. The frequency and duration of severe neutropenia, as well as incidence of febrile neutropenia, were similar to filgrastim historic data.
DSRCT has significant IHC expression of AR and c-Kit in heavily pre-treated patients. The presence of significant AR expression in 37% suggests that these patients could possibly respond to CAB. The significance of c-Kit expression in 35% of DSRCT patients is unknown and warrants further investigation.
These data give an overview on current practice of HSCT for solid tumors in Europe. They provide objective information for health-care providers and patient counselling.
Its antitumor potential and limited toxicity make HD-Cy/Topo an attractive choice for inclusion in aggressive salvage programs aimed at achieving cures of resistant tumors. It may also merit incorporation into frontline treatment protocols.
Multimodal therapy results in improved survival in patients with DSRCT. Aggressive surgical resection of these extensive intraabdominal neoplasms correlates with improved patient outcome.
High-dose ifosfamide plus doxorubicin is an active regimen for all subtypes of gynecological sarcomas. Its toxicity was manageable in a multicentric setting. The prolonged survival might be due to the multidisciplinary strategy that was possible in one-third of the patients.
The ABMTRR provides a comprehensive source of information on the use of bone marrow transplant, and allows for continuing analysis of changes in the application of this high-cost technology and the outcome of patients undergoing these procedures. Registry data provide a means for directing future clinical research into perceived areas of priority for improvement of outcome, such as the reduction in the risk of disease recurrence post-transplant.
High-dose ifosfamide is an active regimen in anthracycline-pretreated STS. Future clinical trials should be aimed at evaluating the impact of different administration schedules on clinical response and outcome. The potential role of HDI as front-line chemotherapy as well as in the adjuvant treatment of STS needs to be investigated in randomized trials.
In our experience, topotecan is beneficial in some refractory or recurrent solid tumors, especially neuroblastomas and soft tissue sarcomas. Myelosuppression was tolerable with the use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factors. Patients with a complete response to topotecan could benefit from high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell rescue therapy.
Intensified therapy (with autologous bone marrow transplantation and intrathecal chemotherapy) may improve the prognosis of patients with malignant rhabdoid tumour.
Recognition of this distinct clinical pattern can help rule out more serious entities, avoid a biopsy, and reassure the physician and patient of the benign and self-resolving clinical course. This entity may be observed with many chemotherapeutic agents and underlying diseases, but most often with high-dose chemotherapy protocols.
These histologic variables would be helpful for predicting the prognosis of MFH of bone. Adjuvant intensive chemotherapy combined with adequate initial surgery may effect a clinical cure.
Further refinements in classification now are available through laboratory techniques utilizing molecular biology, immunology, and cytogenetics, which are of importance in etiologic studies, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis. It would be important in the future for cancer registries to record the results of relevant laboratory tests for further analysis by subtype.
Success in treating children with cancer should not be overshadowed by the incidence of SMNS: However, patients and health-care providers must be aware of risk factors for SMNs so that surveillance is focused and early prevention strategies are implemented.
This first randomized trial demonstrated that rectal cancer surgery without MBP was associated with higher risk of overall and infectious morbidity rates without any significant increase of anastomotic leakage rate. Thus, it suggests continuing to perform MBP before elective rectal resection for cancer.
Preoperative bowel preparation seems to offer no benefit in elective open colorectal surgery.
These results suggest that elective left-sided anastomosis may be safely performed without mechanical preparation. Multicenter studies to test the reproducibility of these results are required, to support a change in this time-honored practice.
These results suggest that elective colon and rectal surgery may be safely performed without mechanical preparation.
Spillage of bowel contents into the peritoneal cavity during colon and rectal surgery may increase the rate of postoperative infectious complications. In addition, inadequate mechanical bowel preparation, leading to liquid bowel contents, increases the rate of intraoperative spillage.
In light of recent clinical reports and this experimental study, the ritual of mechanical bowel preparation should be further scrutinized.
Investigators could have double blinded more often. When they did double blind, they reported poorly and rarely evaluated it. Paradoxically, trials that reported exclusions seemed generally of a higher methodological standard than those that had no apparent exclusions. Exclusions from analysis may have been made in some of the trials in which no exclusions were reported. Editors and readers of reports of randomised trials should understand that flawed reporting of exclusions may often provide a misleading impression of the quality of the trial.
There is no evidence in the literature for beneficial effects from the use of bowel cleansing before elective colorectal surgery. Cleansing seems to be associated with an increased risk of more anastomotic dehiscence. Further studies stratifying between rectal and colonic surgery are warranted.
Consolidation of patients with metastatic or high-risk localized pediatric sarcomas with 8 Gy TBI plus ABMT has failed to improve the outcome of this group of patients. Metastatic disease at diagnosis continues to confer the poorest prognosis. New therapeutic strategies are needed to consolidate more effectively the remissions that can be achieved in the majority of these patients.
The current study suggested that MT with SCT before surgical resection contributes to increase in resectability and achieving CR. In the treatment of advanced pediatric malignancies, especially in the case of unresectable tumor, preoperative MT with SCT should be considered.
A dose of 750 mg/m(2) TT is the MTD when it is associated with BU 480 mg/m(2) and etoposide 2, 400 mg/m(2). This ablative regimen represents a feasible and tolerable combination for high-dose chemotherapy followed by hematopoietic stem cell rescue (HSCR). Phase II studies in children with poor-prognosis solid tumors are required to evaluate the effectiveness of this treatment.
These results, along with the existing literature, show no advantage of high-dose chemotherapy followed by PBSCR as consolidative therapy for patients with Stage 4/Group IV rhabdomyosarcoma over standard dose chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery. For patients with extensive, unresectable disease at diagnosis who cannot receive radiation to all areas of disease based on concerns of marrow reserve, high-dose chemotherapy followed by PBSCR does not appear to provide adequate local control and cannot be offered as curative therapy.
The authors concluded that the number of brain tumors of benign and uncertain behavior being diagnosed were significant enough in number that they should be included in regional and national cancer registries that report data for clinical purposes. They further concluded that for reasons of data inclusion and institutional coverage, the NCDB will be an important data base for pediatric cancers that will warrant increased use by pediatric investigators.
The long-term results of the study confirm the 3-year interim analysis already reported. Surgery (radical or minimal) followed by adjuvant tamoxifen does not modify overall and breast cancer survival as compared with tamoxifen alone in early breast cancer of older women. Because of the high rate of local progressions with tamoxifen alone, minimal surgery followed by tamoxifen appears to be the appropriate treatment in such patients. More extensive surgery is not useful. Tamoxifen alone is an adequate alternative treatment in very old or frail patients.
As a high proportion of patients treated with tamoxifen eventually required surgery treatment of elderly patients with breast cancer should include mastectomy. Optimum treatment may include both mastectomy and tamoxifen.
SLNB results in less postoperative morbidity in terms of subjective arm complaints and mid-arm swelling. Expeditious return to work or normal activity after SLNB has potentially significant socioeconomic consequences.
Enhancing uptake of breast cancer management guidelines is feasible at a regional level with an audit program and broad support among clinicians and consumers.
This study shows that letrozole is more effective than tamoxifen as preoperative therapy in postmenopausal patients with ER and/or PgR positive primary untreated breast cancer and is at least as well tolerated.
It is believed that CLE and Tam provide a simple and safe approach for early non-high-grade breast cancers in elderly women. By such an approach, a large number of elderly women can avoid axillary dissection and radiotherapy.
The attainment of negative surgical margins, initially or at the time of reexcision, is the most significant predictor of local control after breast-conserving treatment with lumpectomy and radiation therapy.
Breast cancer management appears compromised in elderly patients (older than 65 years of age). Frequency of mammography screening is significantly less in elderly women older than 65 years of age. Early detection of preinvasive (curative cancers) is significantly less than in younger patients. The recent requirement by Medicare of mammography every other year may further reduce the opportunity to detect potentially curable cancers. Approximately 20% of patients had inferior treatment of favorable stage early primary cancer with worsened survival. Detection and treatment strategy changes are needed to remedy these deficiencies.
Significant effect of effleurage massage on cellular immunity, cortisol, oxytocin, anxiety, depression or quality of life could not be demonstrated in this study. Several possible explanations to the results of this study are discussed.
Women with Stage 1 and 2 breast cancer may benefit from thrice-weekly massage therapy for reducing depressed mood, anxiety, and anger and for enhancing dopamine, serotonin, and NK cell number and lymphocytes.
Providing women with evidence based information on the risks, uncertainties, and the benefits of screening, is likely to deter some, but not differentially those at higher risk.
Intervention activities produced a modest increase in cervical cancer screening, but they did not accelerate breast cancer screening rates above the observed secular trend.
The relative efficacy of the GP letter in prompting screening attendance shows that this strategy is worthy of further investigation. There remains a need to examine the barriers to screening for older women, and to develop tailored strategies for this population.
Reminders given to patients and physicians had a limited impact on visitation by patients to the HMO sites or Pap smear completion. Although some subgroups of women may benefit, the authors also observed a possibly unfavorable impact among other subgroups. These results emphasize the importance of identifying more effective interventions, targeting them to women most likely to benefit, and not overlooking the possibility that preventive intervention will have an unanticipated adverse effect.
In the study setting, the addition of Pap smear to mammography reminders has a procedure-specific effect, increasing gynecology visits and Pap smear use while neither increasing nor decreasing other primary care visits or mammography. We find no evidence of reinforcement or competition between these reminders.
Simple reminders by mail and phone can drastically increase women's participation in Papanicolaou smear screening and increase the number of detected precursor lesions and thereby save lives.
The cervical screening facility did attract some women who were overdue for a smear test and who might not normally have attended for cervical screening, and there was no evidence to suggest that it had a detrimental effect on the breast screening uptake. An advanced cervical screening invitation seemed preferable to an invitation upon arrival at the breast screening unit.
Combined intervention motivated more Vietnamese American women to obtain their first Pap tests and to become up-to-date than did media education alone.
The systematic methods of call and recall were more effective than a non-systematic method. There was no significant difference between the two systematic methods (sending letters or tagging the notes) at one year.
Personal invitation letters signed by the woman's GP, with preallocated appointments, induce a significant increase in compliance with screening. Efficiency can be ensured through the adoption of overbooking, provided that attendance levels are regularly monitored.
We recommend the use of patient reminder letters as a first step in a mammography or Pap smear screening outreach program. Further research is needed to evaluate a cost-effective provider reminder system and additional outreach strategies directed to women who do not use health care services.
Neither a telephone call from a nurse nor a letter from a celebrity to encourage attendance for cervical screening were effective or cost-effective in women with a prolonged history of non-participation in the screening programme. A letter from the local cervical screening programme commissioner resulted in a small, non-significant increase in uptake. The low cost and ease of implementation of this intervention supports further research into its use in routine practice.
LHWs' intervention appeared to improve the rate at which inner-city women obtained CBEs and mammograms, but had no effect on Pap smears. A high attrition rate weakened our ability to make conclusive statements about the exact impact of the intervention.
For cervical cancer, only 1 person in 12 was not screened in the preceding 5 years, but these accounted for nearly two thirds of invasive cancers. Aggressive outreach to the rarely screened is an important part of screening programs. Letter reminder, followed by a telephone appointment call, was the most cost-effective approach to screening rarely screened women. Lack of accurate information on prior hysterectomy adds substantial unnecessary costs to a screening reminder program.
We are unable to draw conclusions regarding the effectiveness of the computer system due to the modest proportions of women screened, the small numbers, and the fact that the computer survey may have created an intervention effect in the Control group. As the study suggests the computer system is acceptable to women and may be effective for encouraging screening among older women, further exploration of the system is desirable.
The overall conclusion was that IVR technology was a feasible means to contact women to deliver brief interventions aimed at increasing cervical screening rates and could economically target at-risk groups. The potential for linking IVR to centralized Pap test Registers to issue Pap test reminders should be explored.
An outreach intervention is highly effective at increasing follow-up of abnormal Pap smears in a public hospital setting. Institutions offering cervical cancer screening to low-income, high-risk women should consider the use of outreach workers to reduce loss to follow-up.
Older individuals will respond to preventive programs, and such services will result in modest health gains.
Positive changes in screening activities among women aware of the intervention support the importance of information diffusion by community consumers. Diffusion may occur beyond the boundaries of the community as defined.
It appeared that underscreened women were more likely and overscreened women were less likely to have a Pap test in response to the intervention. The results indicate that a community action program can positively impact cervical cancer screening rates.
Financial incentives and feedback did not improve physician compliance with cancer screening guidelines in a Medicaid HMO.
Women's perception of risk contributes to determining screening intervals in addition to practice factors. Simple risk information delivered in primary care affected women's stated preferences for tests. The impact on actual screening behaviour was more equivocal. Overall, the intervention showed a substantial benefit and any disbenefit can be ruled out. This approach to providing risk information could, at low cost, benefit other screening programmes and may relieve anxiety.
Stage and intervention are both significant predictors of screening adoption. The study provides justification for programs to target women in contemplation stage. It also suggests that the boost of a later phone intervention may be consequential for encouraging more women with similar demographics to take action.
A media-led education intervention succeeded in increasing recognition of and intention to undertake screening tests more than receipt of or currency with the tests.
Reminder letters in family practice were viewed as useful and influenced women's decisions to undergo Pap test screening. Women who have had a Pap test may still need additional information about the test.
This study suggests that women in an intensive behavioral intervention designed to increase mammography use may also increase Pap test completion, similar to a minimal intervention focused only on increasing Pap test completion. These results have implications for the design and evaluation of behavioral intervention studies.
Media education campaigns can increase Vietnamese women's awareness of the importance of Pap tests, but lay health workers are more effective at encouraging women to actually obtain the tests. Lay health workers are effective because they use their cultural knowledge and social networks to create change. Researchers, community members, and community-based organizations can share expert knowledge and skills, and build one another's capacities.
Requiring physicians to respond to computer-generated reminders improved their compliance with preventive care protocols, especially for elderly patients for whom control physicians' compliance was the lowest. However, 100% compliance with cancer screening remainders will be unattainable due to incomplete data and patient refusal.
Larger health plans can likely increase Pap test and mammography services in this population for a relatively low cost using this outreach intervention.
Implementation of an HMO-mediated, multicomponent intervention to improve cancer screening was feasible and effective for the Papanicolaou smear, fecal occult blood slide test, and the clinical breast examination, but not for mammography.
Both interventions were associated with moderate reductions in loss-to-follow-up in this underserved population. The implications of these findings are discussed relative to implementing cervical cancer control programs within state and local health departments.
Breast and cervical cancer screening rates were improved in women attending non-primary-care outpatient clinics by using lay health advisers and a nurse practitioner to perform screening. The effect was strongest in women in greatest need of screening.
Both patient and provider study participants emphasized the need to address communication gaps between primary care and mental health providers and to promote the active collaboration of mental health providers in preventive cancer screening for women with mental illness.
Both personal invitation letters and community-based campaigns are effective in recruiting women for Pap test screening. Combined strategies are more effective than single strategies.
While PHRBs may represent an inexpensive, easy-to-produce, and time-efficient method of communicating information to the general population, it appears unlikely that any significant behavioral change will result unless such materials are targeted toward high-risk groups or constitute the first intervention for a particular risk factor.
The results demonstrate the efficacy of an intervention targeting Vietnamese primary care physicians in promoting smoking cessation counseling, Pap testing, and pelvic examinations, but not other cancer prevention activities.
Women's perspectives, attitudes of health care practitioners, and clinical environment need to be considered if change is to happen in women's preventive behavior related to Pap test screening.
In developing countries, inexpensive, community-based educational programs using radio broadcasts and lecture presentations can increase cervical cancer knowledge and improve screening behavior.
The Cancer SOS intervention significantly increased rates of cancer screening among primary care clinics serving disadvantaged populations. The Cancer SOS intervention is one option for providers or policy makers who wish to address cancer related health disparities.
The Cancer SOS intervention had persistent, although modest, effects on screening at 24 months' follow-up, an effect that had clearly diminished from results reported at 12 months' follow-up. Further study is needed to develop successful intervention strategies that are either self-sustaining or that are able to produce long-term changes in screening behavior.
Given the high patient acceptability and demonstrated effectiveness in improving completed treatment and follow-up compliance, educational brochures should routinely accompany, or immediately follow, notification about abnormal Papanicolaou smears.
Opportunities in EDs in NSW for opportunistic reminders are infrequent and, even if taken, are unlikely to encourage screening over and above usual care.
Culturally sensitive videos displayed in waiting rooms may be useful in health promotion efforts in communities of color. The similarity of results in both clinic sites suggests that Spanish-language tapes may be constructed to appeal to Latinos of different nationalities.
The importance of successful introduction on the vaccine by the drug providers and health care professionals in Turkey was shown in this present study with a high rate of awareness of cervical cancer vaccine. "Early-age vaccination knowledge" before any sexual contact is probably due to the correct education of mothers by health care professionals. The professionals should be educated and trained about HPV, vaccination, and its relation with cervical cancer to increase the knowledge about it.
Most (84%) eligible women report having had both breast and cervical screening, but 3% report never having had either. Some inequalities exist in the reported use of screening, which differ by screening type; indicators of wealth were important for breast screening and ethnicity for cervical screening. The routine collection within general practice of additional sociodemographic information would aid monitoring of inequalities in screening coverage and inform policies to correct them.
Patient reminders in the form of mailed letters increase the rate of cervical cancer screening. Patient letter reminders have less efficacy in lower socioeconomic groups.
Overall, most interventions increased Papanicolaou smear use, although there was tremendous variability in their effectiveness. Selection of intervention strategies will depend on provider and patient population characteristics and feasibility of implementation.
MBSR program participation was associated with enhanced quality of life and decreased stress symptoms, altered cortisol and immune patterns consistent with less stress and mood disturbance, and decreased blood pressure. These pilot data represent a preliminary investigation of the longer-term relationships between MBSR program participation and a range of potentially important biomarkers.
In patients with squamous-cell esophageal cancer, preoperative chemoradiotherapy did not improve overall survival, but it did prolong disease-free survival and survival free of local disease.
Sequential chemoradiotherapy of SCC of the esophagus was well tolerated with acceptable acute morbidity and resulted in local control and survival results at least equivalent to those in trials of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy plus surgery.
The authors concluded that this neoadjuvant treatment did not change operative mortality or survival time for patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
The exercise program was not more beneficial than standard care in preventing reduction in BMD, motor performance and passive ankle dorsiflexion than standard care, most likely due to unsatisfactory compliance. Increased BMI and body fat in the intervention group normalized faster after cessation of chemotherapy.
Physical therapy intervention for children with ALL receiving maintenance chemotherapy improved two body functions important for normal gait. Physical therapy programs initiated earlier in treatment and with greater emphasis on endurance activities may also improve stamina and quality of life (QOL).
Childhood cancer survivors report several barriers to exercise and consuming a low-fat diet with more fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and calcium-rich foods.
Gender-tailored intervention strategies in which providers specifically target motivation, fear, and affect may support physical activity in childhood cancer survivors.
Results show that apparently healthy survivors of paediatric cancer can take part in dynamic sporting activities if they exhibit a normal response to cardiopulmonary exercise testing, while those that exhibit a reduced VO2 max should be re-evaluated after an aerobic training programme, and should undergo tailored dynamic physical activity if the VO2 max does not normalise.
In young adulthood, a substantial proportion of childhood cancer survivors already has a high or severe burden of disease, particularly after radiotherapy. This underscores the need for lifelong risk-stratified medical surveillance of childhood cancer survivors.
The muscle strength of female patients may be subnormal for many years after therapy for childhood leukemia. To compensate for these deficiencies, the possible benefits of prophylactic and individually planned exercise should be studied.
: Childhood cancer survivors were less active than a sibling comparison group or an age- and sex-matched population sample. Survivors who are at risk for an inactive lifestyle should be considered high priority for developing and testing of intervention approaches. Cancer 2009. (c) 2009 American Cancer Society.
Moderate-intensity individualized prescriptive exercise is a safe and efficacious means to augment muscular function and improve the quality of life of cancer survivors.
Programs to promote physical activity and limit disability may improve gross motor function and increase overall quality-of-life in survivors of leukemia in childhood.
The results from this randomized Phase II study support expansion of the trial into a Phase III study to evaluate the effect of IFN-CRA combination therapy on the survival of patients who undergo nephrectomy prior to IFN-based immunotherapy. The considerable interobserver variability of response evaluation (individual investigator vs. expert panel) indicates the necessity of a central review of claimed responses in future Phase II studies involving patients with MRCC.
IL6 secreted by tumor cells seems to be tumor protecting against cytotoxic TIL. Blocking this mechanism could be an additional approach in immunotherapy of RCC.
Neither IFN nor IL-2 or the combination of the two appear to be very active in patients with advanced RCC, even when trial entry was restricted to patients with relatively indolent disease. This stresses the need for the development of new approaches.
These results demonstrate that immunotherapy with radical nephrectomy, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, and IL-2 provides substantial clinical benefit in the majority of patients. Component cellular therapy with enriched cell fractions allows the administration of a more standardized cell product. The present results with nephrectomy, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and IL-2 are encouraging, and a randomized clinical trial of nephrectomy, CD8(+) tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, plus IL-2 versus nephrectomy and IL-2 alone is currently in progress.
No difference in outcome was observed in patients with metastatic renal-cell carcinoma who were treated with interferon gamma-1b as compared with placebo. These results emphasize the necessity of testing the efficacy of immunomodulators in randomized studies.
A survival benefit or a favorable outcome of patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, treated with IFN-alpha and VBL, could not be demonstrated. As judged from this analysis, IFN-alpha and VBL therapy does not sufficiently meet the requirements of a palliative treatment of renal cell carcinoma.
The dose and schedule of IL-2 used in this study resulted in a low level of antitumor activity and the addition of LAK did not improve the response rate against RCC. Given the infrequent, but reproducible, responses with IL-2 and interferon-based regimens, continued investigation of these agents is warranted as is the study of new cytokines. Alternative treatment strategies should be studied in RCC and new agents and treatment regimens that appear promising in Phase II studies must be studied in randomized trials.
The present results, which require confirmation in a larger series, indicate that combination with IFN does not increase the efficacy of IL-2 subcutaneous immunotherapy in metastatic RCC but only the toxicity of treatment.
Combination therapy showed an objective response rate of 23% (p = 0.01). Although survival was not a primary aim of the study, there was a tendency toward no significant difference in survival when evaluating these relatively small groups (p = 0.49).
The 'BRM-physical' and 'BRM-mental' subscales can be combined with the FACT-G to form the 'FACT BRM' scale, useful for measuring QOL in cancer patients who are receiving treatment with biologic response modifiers.
Our analysis confirms the low response rate associated with IL-2 treatments but seems to indicate a role of anthracycline in improving the survival of responding patients with an acceptable toxicity.
Cytokines are active in a few patients with metastatic renal-cell carcinoma. The higher response rate and longer event-free survival obtained with a combination of cytokines must be balanced against the toxicity of such treatment.
Some patients with metastatic cancer have prolonged remission when they are treated with high-dose IL-2 alone or in conjunction with LAK cells. Our results suggest a trend toward increased survival when IL-2 is given with LAK cells in patients with melanoma, but no trend was observed for patients with renal cell cancer.
This study confirms that INFN-alpha has antitumoral activity in RCC. Adding coumarin + cimetidine to IFN-alpha in the dose and regimen prescribed in this study did not increase response rates or survival.
Both methods of high-dose rIL-2/LAK cell administration produce nearly equivalent anticancer activity and toxicity in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. The ability to predict responding patients based on patient or treatment characteristics is not possible.
The results of this study indicate that further investigation of IL-2 with or without B-IFN at this dose and schedule as treatments for renal cell carcinoma is probably not warranted.
The combination of high dose IL-2 followed by PEG-IL-2 is a well tolerated regimen with significant activity against RCC and melanoma, but it shows no significant increase in antitumor activity compared with high dose IL-2 alone.
This preliminary study would suggest that the concomitant administration of low-dose MPA may prolong the FFP period in metastatic renal cancer patients under maintenance therapy with IL-2. A longer follow-up will be required to evaluate the influence of MPA on overall survival.
AV with IFNgamma and IFNalpha therapy might induce a MHC class-mediated cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response. We suggest that adequate therapy might direct T cell response toward a Th1 type response. We hypothesize a state of improved immune readiness in patients who might eventually respond to immunotherapy.
Kidney cancer used to be considered a single disease. It is now known that there are a number of different types of cancers of the kidney with different histological patterns and different clinical courses that appear to respond differently to therapy. These different types of kidney cancer are caused by different genes, ie they each have a distinct genetic basis. Understanding the molecular pathways of these cancer genes should provide insight into their varying clinical courses and responses to treatment as well as provide the foundation for the development of disease specific molecular therapeutic strategies.
Five prognostic factors for predicting survival were identified and used to categorize patients with metastatic RCC into three risk groups, for which the median survival times were separated by 6 months or more. These risk categories can be used in clinical trial design and interpretation and in patient management. The low long-term survival rate emphasizes the priority of clinical investigation to identify more effective therapy.
Despite extensive evaluation of many different treatment modalities, metastatic renal cell carcinoma remains highly resistant to systemic therapy. A few patients exhibit complete or partial responses to interferon and/or IL-2 but most do not respond, and there are few long-term survivors. Preclinical research, and clinical evaluation of new agents and treatment programs to identify improved antitumor activity against metastases remain the highest priorities in this refractory disease.
The use of unidimensional measurements in RCC therapy assessment results in significantly different time to progression classification compared with the use of bidimensional measurements. Response assessment classification in patients with RCC is affected by the exclusion or inclusion of measurements of the primary renal tumor. The normalized lesion index warrants further study in assessing response in patients with metastatic RCC and other solid tumor malignancies that often show substantial differences in sizes of measurable lesions.
Bevacizumab can significantly prolong the time to progression of disease in patients with metastatic renal-cell cancer.
Survival of women with surgical stage II endometrial cancer is excellent especially among those treated with total abdominal hysterectomy followed by both pelvic and vaginal cuff radiotherapy or by radical abdominal hysterectomy.
Although longer follow-up is needed, the survival of women with early-stage endometrial carcinoma does not appear to be worsened by laparoscopy. Surgical stage, tumor histology, and tumor grade were found to significantly affect survival regardless of the surgical approach used.
Adjunctive RT in early stage intermediate risk endometrial carcinoma decreases the risk of recurrence, but should be limited to patients whose risk factors fit a high intermediate risk definition.
Significant short-term treatment-related upper-limb morbidity exists after SLNB or ALND. There is no significant difference in short-term treatment-related morbidity between SLNB and ALND.
Three months after surgery for breast cancer, impaired shoulder mobility, and ADL persisted in a substantial number of patients. Type of surgery and axillary irradiation contributed significantly to upper limb recovery. This observation warrants considering continuation of physiotherapy aiming to improve restoration of upper limb function.
Few studies investigated the relationship between late morbidity of the upper limb after treatment of early breast cancer and ADL/QOL. Significant relationship between late morbidity and restrictions of daily activities and poorer QOL was reported, however, the strength of this relationship was rather low.
Concurrent chemotherapy, mitomycin C, and 5-FU together with conventional RT showed an improved DFS rate when compared with conventional RT alone in patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the cervix.
AWNH is highly predictive of outcome for patients treated with RT for carcinoma of the cervix. Blood transfusion appears to overcome the negative prognostic effects of low presenting Hgb levels and AWNH levels.
The weekly cisplatin chemotherapy administered during radiation therapy was well tolerated in this high-risk group of patients and did not diminish the ability to give standard doses of radiation.
Prolongation of treatment time in patients with Stage IB, IIA, IIB, and III carcinoma of the uterine cervix has a significant impact on pelvic tumor control and CSS. The effect of OTT was present regardless of tumor size except in Stage IB tumors < or = 3 cm.
These data should be used by individuals contemplating a clinical trial to determine if prophylactic anticonvulsants are effective in subsets of brain tumour patients (e.g. only anaplastic astrocytomas). When taken together with the results of a similar randomized trial, prophylactic anticonvulsants are unlikely to be effective or useful in brain tumour patients who have not had a seizure.
Anticonvulsant prophylaxis with divalproex sodium is not indicated for patients with brain tumors who have not had seizures.
PHT, given at dosages producing serum concentrations within the target range, failed to prevent early postoperative seizures in patients treated with concomitant AEDs. Prophylactic administration of PHT cannot be recommended in these patients.
Seizures contributed substantially to the neurologic morbidity of MGs in at least 25% of these patients. The occurrence of seizures at diagnosis was a strong predictor of subsequent seizures, and in many patients, seizures proved to be refractory to standard anticonvulsant therapy. Long-term anticonvulsant toxic side effects are relatively common in patients with MGs. The use of long-term seizure prophylaxis for patients with MGs who are free of seizures at presentation is not clearly beneficial and should be studied in a prospective trial.
Most tumor-related seizures first appear early in the course of disease, usually as a presenting manifestation. Antiepileptic drugs combined with specific antitumor treatments significantly reduce the rate of seizure generalization. However, most patients continue to have focal epilepsy during follow-up.
Routine use of AED prophylaxis in patients with brain tumors undergoing neurosurgical procedures remains the prevailing practice pattern among members of the AANS. Additional larger prospective studies with appropriate patient stratification culminating in development of neurosurgical guidelines on AED prophylaxis in brain tumor patients is warranted.
No evidence supports AED prophylaxis with phenobarbital, phenytoin, or valproic acid in patients with brain tumors and no history of seizures, regardless of neoplastic type. Subspecialists who treat patients with brain tumors need more education on this issue. Future randomized controlled trials should address whether any of the newer AEDs are useful for seizure prophylaxis.
Neutralizing antierythropoietin antibodies and pure red-cell aplasia can develop in patients with the anemia of chronic renal failure during treatment with epoetin.
Despite significant correlations, these results indicate that Hb values only partially explain subjectively experienced fatigue and quality of life in cancer patients. It is suggested therefore that the treatment of fatigue must be multidimensional and involve all areas which contribute to the syndrome.
The new model accounts for duration of MDS and prior therapy. It is applicable to any patient with MDS at any time during the course of MDS.
Current knowledge indicates that sleep/wake disturbances are prevalent in cancer populations. Few instruments have been validated in this population. Nonpharmacologic interventions show positive outcomes, but design issues and small samples limit generalizability. Little is known regarding use of pharmacologic and herbal and complementary supplements and potential adverse outcomes or interactions with cancer therapies.
Cognitive behavioral therapy interventions are likely to be effective, but effectiveness has not been established for complementary, education or information, or exercise interventions.
The findings indicate that nonpharmacological interventions produce reliable and durable changes in the sleep patterns of patients with chronic insomnia.
This study suggests that chronic insomnia is associated with some immune alterations. More research is needed to determine the clinical significance of these findings.
Patients with cancer are at high risk for sleep-wake disturbances.
In selected patients, liver resection prior to transplantation does not increase the morbidity or impair long-term survival following LT. Therefore, liver resection prior to transplantation can be integrated in the treatment strategy for HCC.
The best indication for transplantation seems to be patients with small and uninodular or binodular tumors; until now, these patients were considered to be the best candidates for resection. Patients undergoing transplantation for unresectable, large, multinodular or diffuse tumors seem to represent bad indications for transplantation. These results could help define reasonable indications for transplantation in an era with a shortage of liver grafts.
Child A patients with single nodules are the best candidates for liver resection. Tumor recurrence is strictly linked to the status of the underlying liver disease, and a preoperative AST level equal to 2N seems to be a sensitive cutoff among patients with different risks of recurrence. HCV-positive patients with AST levels above 2N have the highest risk for intrahepatic recurrence and should be monitored carefully or offered alternative treatments.
The long-term survival of patients with HCC after hepatectomy depends on tumor staging, preoperative hepatic functional reserve, history of blood transfusion, and rupture of HCC. Preoperative liver function and tumor staging cannot be altered; however, the surgeon can play an important role in improving the prognosis if blood transfusion and iatrogenic tumor rupture can be avoided and if function of the liver remnant can be preserved.
Liver resection can provide long term DFS in HCC patients with normal liver function. In patients with liver function impairment or an inadequate resection margin, recurrences are almost certain to occur. Preoperative chemoembolization significantly prolongs DFS but may increase the risk of postoperative liver failure in patients with liver function impairment.
Liver transplantation is an effective treatment for small, unresectable hepatocellular carcinomas in patients with cirrhosis.
The results of hepatic resection in 229 patients with HCC were analyzed. Child's class, BSP test, and blood loss during surgery were good predictors for operative death. The 5- and 10-year survival rates were 26.4% and 19.4%, respectively. Age, liver cirrhosis, tumor size, and postoperative chemotherapy were prognostic factors. Multidisciplinary approach with liver resection, postoperative chemotherapy, and liver transplantation will be a realistic direction for the surgical treatment of HCC in future.
Surgery for HCC achieves acceptable early and long-term results. However, the patterns affecting perioperative outcome must be better understood, and the high recurrence rate warrants further trials to assess preventive treatments after LR.
Cirrhotics with increased portal pressure are at high risk of hepatic decompensation after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma. Surgical resection should therefore be restricted to patients without portal hypertension.
Surgical resection in the form of partial or total hepatectomy is the preferred treatment for HCC. The early detection of tumors by screening high-risk populations is crucial. Randomized trials of combinations of chemotherapy and surgical resection are needed to demonstrate their potential utility for treatment.
LR represents a well-established therapy for HCC on cirrhosis. It remains one of the fundamentals in the multidisciplinary approach to this tumor and should be considered as the first option for patients with preserved hepatic function and limited disease. Today, LR should offer a surgical death rate of less than 1.5%, a 5-year survival rate of approximately 50%, and a 5-year tumor-free survival rate of 28% when performed in specialized centers.
This study shows that surgical therapy is associated with improved survival in patients with unifocal, nonmetastatic HCC tumors <5 cm. If this is confirmed in future studies, efforts should be made to ensure that appropriate patients with resectable HCC receive high-quality care, as well as the opportunity for potentially curative surgery.
Prevention is the only way to reduce the number of HCC patients. There are four steps for prevention which require further attention and improvement.
LDLT was shown to offer acceptable results in patients who exceeded the Milan criteria. The indication for LDLT can therefore be expanded beyond the Milan criteria, especially for patients with small multiple tumors <5 cm.
In LDLT, the indication for HCC might be expanded from the Milan criteria, with equivalent outcomes. Further study, however, is necessary to justify the general application of the 5-5 rule.
This investigation found that overall survival for HCC patients concomitant with liver cirrhosis who underwent hepatic resection should be stratified on the basis of the high value of alkaline phosphatase, tumor size, satellite lesions, and vascular invasion.
The results of this study advance the current scientific knowledge by confirming that HRQOL outcomes, in particular the physical, function and mental health dimensions are associated with survival for CCS. These findings highlight the utility of cancer site specific HRQOL data to inform the psychosocial and symptom management aspects, as well as the medical follow-up care practice and research that may extend life.
Follow-up routines after gynecological cancer vary in Norway. The optimal approach is unknown and RCTs comparing follow-up protocols are missing. Studies of breast and colorectal cancer patients show that studies on follow-up strategies are feasible but sufficient sample size and observation time are important.
There were similarities and differences in perceptions of follow-up care procedures between the two focus groups. Patients placed importance on clinical examination in indicating disease recurrence, whereas health professionals viewed this as historical practice with no evidence base. Accurate information on how disease progression is monitored should be communicated to patients. A modified approach to follow-up procedures is suggested as a useful strategy to tailor services to individual needs and preferences, whilst responding to service demands.
Overall median PFS showed a positive trend but was not statistically significant. The median PFS in the platinum-refractory and primary platinum-resistant OC patients was significantly longer for canfosfamide + PLD versus PLD. Canfosfamide may ameliorate the palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia and stomatitis known to be associated with PLD. Further study of this active well-tolerated regimen in platinum-refractory and primary platinum-resistant OC is planned. This study was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov: 
These patient-reported outcomes confirm the overall lower toxicity of CD versus CP. The improved disease-related outcomes achieved with CD were not at the expense of QoL.
Use of PLD with carboplatin instead of paclitaxel and older age were the only 2 factors predicting a low rate of HSRs in patients with ROC. CD has previously demonstrated superior progression-free survival and therapeutic index than CP. Taken together these data support the use of CD as a safe and effective therapeutic option for platinum-sensitive ROC.
Patients ≥70 years experienced more neuropathy, with a higher incidence in the C-P arm. Similar to all study patients, C-PLD provided a better therapeutic index with less toxicity than C-P in elderly women with platinum-sensitive ROC.
The present analysis suggested the net cost-saving capability of PLD compared with topotecan. PLD required fewer ambulatory care-center visits for treatment administration and was associated with fewer severe AEs than topotecan.
Considerable intrapatient variation in CA125 values is present among responding patients. Early increases in CA125 may not predict ultimate outcome, especially in PLD-treated patients.
The addition of trabectedin to PLD led to little or no decrement in patient-reported functional status and symptoms in patients with relapsed ovarian cancer, as compared to treatment with PLD alone. The combination led to manageable and non-cumulative overall toxicity with a fewer PLD-associated adverse events, and a significant improvement in PFS and ORR compared to single agent.
The final OS analysis did not meet the protocol-defined criterion for statistical significance. Despite stratification on platinum sensitivity, there was an imbalance in mean platinum free interval that had an effect on OS.
Combination chemotherapy using newer cytotoxic agents with demonstrated activity in treating advanced-stage ovarian cancer and the ability to enhance platinum-based therapies appears to offer hope of prolonging life and reducing mortality from this disease.
The adopted schedule of PLD plus carboplatin demonstrates activity as a first-line treatment for advanced ovarian cancer.
The use of ice packs around wrists and ankles is a simple and well tolerated prevention strategy and its efficacy is demonstrated in this study.
The study suggests that, following strict methods of pre- and postoperative care, TIVADs in patients with solid tumors may be surgically implanted without any antibiotic prophylaxis.
Although more than one-third of patients receiving IL-2 treatment with biochemotherapy failed to tolerate novobiocin and rifampin, this oral antibiotic regimen was efficacious in preventing the infectious complications, especially those associated with vascular catheters, in this high risk patient population.
Dalbavancin thus appears to be an effective and well-tolerated treatment option for adult patients with CR-BSIs caused by CoNS and S. aureus, including MRSA.
In this study, population central lines were associated with a high rate of infection. Treatment protocol and age were the only significant risk factors when only first lines were considered. Delaying catheter insertion for more than 3 weeks from diagnosis did not reduce the risk of infection.
This study documents that neutropenia and failure to administer prophylactic antibiotics are risk factors for the development of early CVC infection in pediatric patients. To avoid early infection and possible premature CVC removal, we recommend that placement of permanent CVCs be postponed until the ANC is > 1,000. Perioperative antibiotics should be given. A trend toward higher infection rates was seen in patients with preoperative fever.
The evaluations of these 12 patients suggest that treatment with TG causes injury to the liver leading to PH and that thrombocytopenia and splenomegaly are clinical hallmarks of this toxicity.
All patients identified have evidence of hepatitis and may be at high risk of developing cirrhosis.
The data are consistent with a decreased reserve capacity of the liver after short-term, high-dose methotrexate. Long-term survivors deserve monitoring of liver function for safer methotrexate use, in the light of progressive dosage increments to improve prognosis in neoplastic diseases.
Microvesicular fatty change and siderosis are the main liver findings after current therapy for childhood ALL. Fibrosis occurs rarely. High values in serial serum ALT measurements repeatedly or a disturbed serum lipid profile may facilitate decisions about the need for a liver biopsy.
This survey on selected cases of LCH survivors has confirmed that late sequels are frequent, and that they are even more common among those with MS LCH. Our findings highlight the need for long-term and patient-oriented follow-up in children with LCH.
For fetal SCT, the rapidity at which cardiac compromise can develop and the high incidence of obstetric complications warrant close prenatal surveillance. Amnioreduction, cyst aspiration, and surgical debulking are potentially life-saving interventions.
Two thirds of former childhood cancer patients are able to return to everyday life without any impairment. However, one third is suffering from considerable morbidity requiring long-term medical care. Transition models from pediatric hemato-oncology to adult health care providers are urgently needed.
Our study suggests that PIIIP and hPH values are significantly higher in ALL patients with chronic HCV with either normal or high transaminases. This might suggest that the liver damage is more marked in patients with chronic hepatitis and that the liver damage is related to the HCV rather than chemotherapy. Future studies correlating histologic findings with the serum biochemical markers are required to establish the sensitivity and specificity of hPH and PIIIP in predicting hepatic fibrosis and to confirm this association.
The majority of long-term survivors of stage 4S neuroblastoma have no clinically or radiologically significant sequelae but do have residual abnormalities. These findings have implications for subsequent management of unrelated medical conditions in this patient group.
A proportion of patients that relapse after an allogeneic progenitor cells transplant may benefit from second transplant; especially, young patients having a good performance status, and with a long interval between transplants.
Survivors of childhood cancer have a high rate of illness owing to chronic health conditions.
In this trial, high dose melphalan improved the length of EFS and overall survival of children with stage IV neuroblastoma >1 year of age who achieved CR or GPR after OPEC induction therapy and surgery. Multi-agent myeloablative regimens are now widely used as consolidation therapy for children with stage IV disease and in those with other disease stages when the MYCN gene copy number in tumour cells is amplified. Because they are more toxic, complex, and costly these combination megatherapy regimens should be compared with single agent melphalan in randomised clinical trials.
Survivors are at risk for developing sequelae many years after their initial diagnosis and treatment. Continued medical surveillance is necessary to ensure the long-term health and well-being of RMS survivors.
A reduced dose of 36-Gy EBRT after delayed GTR may maximize local control while minimizing long-term sequelae for very young children with RMS, but unresectable tumors (e.g., parameningeal) require higher doses. Normal-tissue-sparing techniques such as intensity-modulated radiation therapy and IOHDR are encouraged. Local control may be maximized when EBRT begins <or=18 weeks after initiation of CMT, but further study is warranted. Longer follow-up is required to determine the full extent of late effects.
6-Thioguanine-induced chronic hepatotoxicity is a significant complication in children treated with this agent for ALL. Children may present several months to years after discontinuation of 6-thioguanine. All children given maintenance treatment of ALL with this agent should be screened, and affected children require long-term surveillance.
Intensification of therapy significantly improved the EFS of infants with ALL compared with previous, less intensive regimens and with the experience of other investigators. Future treatment for infants should attempt to improve efficacy while minimizing toxicity.
Initial therapy should be more individualized, taking the above risk groups (age in non-anaplastic WTs, poor response, anaplasia, etc.) into account, as morbidity even after relapse therapy with ifosfamide, carboplatin and etoposide was not high. Milder therapy in low stages of differentiated and of well responding WTs should be tested.
In the US population, elevated GGT was associated with mortality from all causes, liver disease, cancer, and diabetes, while ALT was associated only with liver disease mortality.
The 22 item MDASI-BT demonstrated validity and reliability in patients with PBT. This instrument can be used to identify symptom occurrence throughout the disease trajectory and to evaluate interventions designed for symptom management.
Fatigue should not be considered a solitary symptom with 1 root cause, but a complex symptom related to the severity of other symptoms and potentially having various etiologies. Future studies should consider these factors in planning interventions and assessing response.
The interrelationships of the symptoms examined in this study and their relationships with QoL and functional status meet the criteria for defining a symptom cluster. The differences in the models of QoL and functional status indicates that symptom clusters may have unique characteristics in patients with gliomas.
Dexamethasone treatment during continuation therapy for childhood ALL significantly and adversely altered sleep and fatigue, confirming that sleep and fatigue are behavioral responses to dexamethasone.
The CRFDS has strong content validity, high reliability, and very good construct validity.
Occult disseminated malignancy may mimic TTP. A search for systemic malignancy, including a bone marrow biopsy, is appropriate when patients with TTP have atypical clinical features or fail to respond to plasma exchange.
Assessment of distress in brain tumor patients provides clinically relevant information and suggests interventions that may support quality of life. Further research is needed to explore the relationship between distress and quality of life. Current approaches to measuring quality of life in brain tumor patients may systematically undersample patients with advanced illness or significant psychosocial distress.
Patients with GBM experience increases in fatigue after radiation therapy. Increases in fatigue are associated with decreases in almost all aspects of patients' QOL.
A significant percentage of oncology patients experience significant disturbances in sleep-wake circadian activity rhythms at the initiation of RT. The disturbances occur in both sleep initiation and sleep maintenance.
Issues of quality of life are paramount in this group of poor prognosis patients, therefore, health professionals should provide preparatory information to patients on what to expect from the illness and its treatments. Health professionals should also assist patients to manage debilitating symptoms such as fatigue and cognitive impairment.
The revised version of the PFS consists of 22 items and four subscales: behavioral/severity (6 items), affective meaning (5 items), sensory (5 items) and cognitive/mood (6 items). Standardized alpha for the entire scale (n = 22 items) is 0.97, indicating that some redundancy still may exist among the items. Additional revisions await further testing.
In glioma, mild to moderate depressive symptoms may only rarely be due to tumor-associated structural or functional disruption of neuronal emotional networks. Improved methodological reporting would help clinicians better evaluate future studies, and facilitate improved evidence-based care of depressed glioma patients.
Large tumours apparently damage several parts of the brain and/or raise intracranial pressure to a level that exceeds the brain's compensatory capacity. Contrary to earlier understanding, tumours in the right hemisphere seemed to be related to poorer quality of life. This effect was especially clear in the patients' subjective evaluation of their quality of life. As the location of the brain tumour thus affects perceived quality of life, any measurements of the quality of life of patients with brain tumours should take into account the location and laterality of the tumour.
Fatigue has been identified as an important problem by patients with cancer. It affects more patients for more of the time than any other symptom and is regarded by patients as being more important than either pain or nausea/vomiting. Research into the aetiology and management of this symptom should be regarded as a priority.
These data support the hypothesis that modafinil increases motivation. Moreover, given the similarity of effects with GBR12909, the data corroborate evidence that the behavioral effects of modafinil might be due to DAT inhibition. Furthermore, the dopamine D1R might play a downstream role in mediating modafinil-induced increases in motivation. Thus, studies reporting cognition-enhancing effects of modafinil might have been influenced by its ability to increase motivation.
The use of defunctioning loop ileostomy in all patients undergoing lower rectal surgery with stapler anastomosis is beneficial and safe. Defunctioning loop ileostomy use has resulted in no anastomotic leak rate and considerable low morbidity. So according to our study, we strongly recommend defunctioning loop ileostomy as a routine procedure in patients undergoing lower rectal cancer surgery.
Our results suggest that a covering colostomy does not reduce the leak rate after low anterior resection, but prevents most of the severe infective consequences of the leaks.
The data demonstrate a high risk for patients undergoing low anterior resection without diverting ileostomy.
These results following conventional surgery may be useful when evaluating new techniques.
With low anastomosis after low anterior resection with TME, diversion stoma construction should be performed routinely in men. In women, the need for diversion can be more selective.
Anterior resection with mesorectal excision is a safe option and can be performed in the majority of patients with rectal cancer. The local recurrence rate was 9.7% and the cancer-specific survival was 74.5%. When the tumor requires a TME, this procedure is more complex and has a higher leakage rate than in those higher tumors where PME provides adequate mesorectal clearance. By performing TME in patients with mid and distal rectal cancer, the local control and survival of these patients are similar to those of patients with proximal cancers where adequate clearance can be achieved by PME.
Low rectal anastomoses are at risk for anastomotic leakage, especially in males and in generally unfit patients.
After rectal anastomosis, an anastomotic leak is associated with a significant increase in local recurrence.
Anterior resection performed with the double-stapling technique has an acceptable clinical leak rate, local recurrence rate, and survival rate. However, the clinical leak rate appears to be increased in patients with low tumors and, therefore, a defunctioning colostomy should be considered. Resection margins of more than 2 cm are necessary.
LR of breast cancer after SSM is not always associated with systemic relapse.
The incidence of local recurrence of DCIS after SSM is similar to conventional total mastectomy. Reexcision of close margins should be performed if possible and adjuvant radiation therapy should be considered.
Skin-sparing mastectomy is an oncologically safe technique in selected cases; T1/T2, multicentric tumors, ductal carcinoma in situ, and prophylactic mastectomies are particularly suited to this technique. Further research is required to confirm oncologic safety in T3 tumors. In selected cases, the nipple-areola complex can be preserved. A modification of skin-sparing mastectomy includes the removal of the nipple while preserving the areola. The balance of evidence suggests that skin-sparing mastectomy does not increase the risk of locoregional recurrence. Furthermore, it does not delay adjuvant therapies. Contraindications to skin-sparing mastectomy approaches include inflammatory breast cancer and extensive skin involvement by tumor. Preoperative and postoperative radiotherapy are not a contraindication to skin-sparing mastectomy.
There is a low incidence of LR after SSM, and it is associated with advanced disease at presentation. LR is an independent risk factor for tumor-related death.
A high prevalence of glandular breast tissue and residual disease in the skin flap was associated with a skin flap thickness >5 mm.
An alpha/beta value of around 3 Gy for late normal tissue changes in the breast is derived from the estimated equivalence of 41.6 Gy in 13 fractions and 50 Gy in 25 fractions over 5 weeks, in line with trial predictions.
Breast irradiation was shown to reduce cancer recurrence in the breast, but there was no statistically significant reduction in mortality. A subgroup of patients with a very low risk for local breast recurrence who might not require radiation therapy was not identified.
Results are comparable to those reported from centers employing more conventional fractionation. Short fractionation produces acceptable cosmetic results for the majority of women if there are no contraindications to RT and in the absence of significant post-operative breast induration.
There is no evidence of a direct effect of CT dose-density on dose-intensity of RT. However, the concomitant use of CT and RT reduces the possibility of giving a full dose-intensity of RT.
Ten years after treatment, accelerated, hypofractionated whole-breast irradiation was not inferior to standard radiation treatment in women who had undergone breast-conserving surgery for invasive breast cancer with clear surgical margins and negative axillary nodes. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
There was a lack of consensus on the management of breast cancer among clinicians in 1990. More patients should be included in clinical trials.
Some of the local therapies for breast cancer had substantially different effects on the rates of local recurrence--such as the reduced recurrence with the addition of radiotherapy to surgery--but there were no definite differences in overall survival at 10 years.
The Committee on Standards of the Canadian Association of Radiation Oncologists recommends that the interval between referral and consultation should not exceed 2 weeks and that the interval between consultation and initiation of radiotherapy should also not exceed 2 weeks. The majority of patients treated in Ontario met both those standards in 1982, but by 1991 few patients received care within the prescribed intervals.
Trastuzumab combined with paclitaxel after doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide improves outcomes among women with surgically removed HER2-positive breast cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
The practice of adjuvant radiotherapy for early breast cancer in Ontario varies. The optimal radiation regimen for patients after lumpectomy should be determined through randomized clinical trials.
Surgical excision of the primary breast tumor was associated with significantly longer survival in this cohort of stage IV breast cancer patients, even after controlling for other factors associated with survival. Randomized clinical trials are needed to validate these findings.
Nephrectomy followed by interferon therapy results in longer survival among patients with metastatic renal-cell cancer than does interferon therapy alone.
These data suggest that the role of local therapy in women with stage IV breast cancer needs to be re-evaluated, and local therapy plus systemic therapy should be compared with systemic therapy alone in a randomized trial.
Although surgery in MBC has historically been reserved for palliation, the authors observed a decreasing rate of traditional 'toilet mastectomy' and a broadened surgical approach to the asymptomatic patient. When viewed in parallel with evolving concepts in cancer biology, these data reflect a change in the traditional approach to patients with MBC and warrant further investigation.
Even if it is premature to present selenium as a longevity indicator in an elderly population, our results are in accordance those of large, interventional, randomized trials with selenium, which suggest that this essential trace element plays a role in health maintenance in aging individuals.
In a representative sample of the US population, we found a nonlinear association between serum selenium levels and all-cause and cancer mortality. Increasing serum selenium levels were associated with decreased mortality up to 130 ng/mL. Our study, however, raises the concern that higher serum selenium levels may be associated with increased mortality.
Low plasma selenium is associated with a 4 to 5-fold increased risk of prostate cancer. These results support the hypothesis that supplemental selenium may reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Because plasma selenium decreases with patient age, supplementation may be particularly beneficial to older men.
Overall, our study found no association of serum antioxidants or 15-isoprostane F(2t) with the risk of prostate cancer. The observed inverse association of selenium with prostate cancer in African-Americans needs to be validated in other studies.
Toenail selenium levels were not inversely associated with cancer risk in this study.
S-Se levels and smoking habits influence long-term risk of PrCa. Smoking as a risk factor for PrCa in men with low s-Se is relevant to explore further. Exploratory analyses of variations in OGG1 and MnSOD genes indicate that hypotheses about patterns of exposure to selenium and smoking combined with data on genetic variation in genes involved in DNA repair can be valuable to pursue.
The use of combined alpha- and gamma- tocopherol supplements should be considered in upcoming prostate cancer prevention trials, given the observed interaction between alpha-tocopherol, gamma-tocopherol, and selenium.
The results of this study do not support the use of commonly taken vitamin or mineral supplements or 6 common anti-inflammatory supplements for the chemoprevention of urothelial carcinoma.
In this nested case-control study of a stratified sample from the Belgian population, serum selenium is an independent predictor of cancer mortality in male subjects only, in a country with rather high serum selenium levels with respect to most other European countries.
The inverse association between baseline plasma selenium levels and risk of advanced prostate cancer, even among men diagnosed during the post-PSA era, suggests that higher levels of selenium may slow prostate cancer tumor progression. Ongoing randomized trials of selenium supplements may help to further evaluate this issue.
Selenium may have a protective role against the development of ovarian cancer. Higher serum cholesterol levels were associated with an increased risk of developing ovarian cancer; an association that persisted regardless of serum micronutrient level.
Selenium treatment did not protect against development of basal or squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. However, results from secondary end-point analyses support the hypothesis that supplemental selenium may reduce the incidence of, and mortality from, carcinomas of several sites. These effects of selenium require confirmation in an independent trial of appropriate design before new public health recommendations regarding selenium supplementation can be made
Although selenium shows no protective effects against the primary endpoint of squamous and basal cell carcinomas of the skin, the selenium-treated group had substantial reductions in the incidence of prostate cancer, and total cancer incidence and mortality that demand further evaluation in well-controlled prevention trials.
Selenium supplementation does not seem to prevent type 2 diabetes, and it may increase risk for the disease. Click here for related information on selenium.
In this prospective cohort, long-term supplemental intake of vitamin E and selenium were not associated with prostate cancer risk overall; however, risk of clinically relevant advanced disease was reduced with greater long-term vitamin E supplementation.
Careful planning, recruitment of large numbers of clinical centers and adequate resources accomplished by the combined efforts of the National Cancer Institute (NCI), Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG), SELECT Recruitment and Adherence Committee (RAC), SELECT Minority and Medically Underserved Subcommittee (MMUS), and the local SELECT sites resulted in attainment of the estimated sample size ahead of schedule and recruitment of the largest percentage of black participants ever randomized to a cancer prevention trial.
SELECT is the second large-scale study of chemoprevention for prostate cancer. Enrollment began in 2001 with final results anticipated in 2013.
SELECT is the second large-scale study of chemoprevention for prostate cancer. Enrollment in the study is planned to begin in 2001 with final results anticipated in 2013.
SELECT is the second large-scale study of chemoprevention for prostate cancer. Enrollment began in 2001 with final results anticipated in 2013.
The aforementioned trials provide valuable lessons in the successful design and conduct of phase III prostate cancer prevention trials.
These data support a suggestive but inconsistent inverse association between selenium levels and risk of stomach cancer. Our findings, like those of other studies, do not suggest an inverse association with risk of colorectal cancer.
Our study supports findings from previous prospective studies and randomized trials that variations in selenium levels affect the incidence of certain cancers. In the United States, where intervention trials of selenium are in the planning stages, consideration should be given to including populations at high risk for squamous esophageal and gastric cardia cancers.
Our results support earlier findings that higher selenium intakes may reduce the risk of prostate cancer. Further prospective studies and randomized trials of this relationship should be conducted.
The potentiating factor remains unknown: if dietary fat has any effect on NMSC, it is not apparent when basal cell tumours are considered. There was no evidence of a generalized healthy eating effect. A substantial protective effect was found in exploratory analyses for the fat soluble antioxidant vitamin E.
These results suggest that low selenium status may be associated with increased risk for lung cancer.
The results of our study have shown that a decrease in the PSA level while taking a selenium, vitamin E, and soy isoflavonoids supplement predicts for a significantly lower risk of PCa in future biopsies. The percentage of initial biopsy cores with HGPIN and isolated HGPIN remaining at the first repeat biopsy are significant predictors of PCa in future biopsies.
These data indicate that modifiable lifestyle factors mediate the inverse gradient between education and death from cerebro- and cardiovascular disease. Smoking, physical activity and dietary factors explained half of the excess cancer mortality in lower educated groups. Further studies are needed to explore the proposed association between palmitoleic acid, a marker of high intake of animal and dairy fat, and cancer.
After a 10-month intervention, neither selenomethionine nor celecoxib inhibited esophageal squamous carcinogenesis for all high-risk subjects. However, among subjects with mild esophageal squamous dysplasia at baseline, selenomethionine did have a protective effect. Although it is based on unplanned stratified analyses, this finding is the first report of a possible beneficial effect for any candidate esophageal squamous cell carcinoma chemopreventive agent in a randomized controlled trial.
In this large prospective cohort study, we found no evidence of an association between selenium and risk of BE.
For all potentially useful biomarkers, more information is needed to evaluate their strengths and limitations in different population groups, including the effects of varying intakes, the duration of intervention, baseline selenium status, and possible confounding effects of genotype.
The findings indicate that vitamin and mineral supplementation of the diet of Linxian adults, particularly with the combination of beta carotene, vitamin E, and selenium, may effect a reduction in cancer risk in this population.
Our results show the role of PHD2/3 in stable expression of HIF-α in human ccRCC. Furthermore, HIF-1α degradation by MSC is achieved through PHD2 dependent and VHL independent pathway which is unique for HIF-α regulation. These data provide the basis for combining MSC with currently used agents for ccRCC.
Our results indicate the need to evaluate and integrate gender-related findings in metal toxicology and trace element research, because different causal factors require different preventive measures to reduce mercury exposure and the risk of low selenium concentrations. Future research is needed on the gender- and age-related differences in fish/seafood consumption habits, the modifications of mercury toxicokinetics through sex hormones, the selenium supply in Austria, and the clinical relevance of a low selenium status.
After 7.5 years, low-dose antioxidant supplementation lowered total cancer incidence and all-cause mortality in men but not in women. Supplementation may be effective in men only because of their lower baseline status of certain antioxidants, especially of beta carotene.
With the possible exceptions of Vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids there is no data to support the widespread use of dietary supplements in Westernized populations; indeed, many of these supplements may be harmful.
These results show that passive smoking may affect the risk of cancers other than lung cancer.
The developed FFQ is a tool to estimate the selenium intake in individuals, as it could be shown in this study. A significant positive correlation between selenium intake and blood selenium level was noted. These results must be confirmed by further studies in larger patient population.
In the current study, patients of low socioeconomic class were found to be at increased risk of dying as a result of their prostate cancer. This increased mortality is largely attributable to delayed diagnosis, poor diagnostic workup, and less invasive treatments in these individuals.
Both toenail and plasma selenium levels similarly reflect selenium intake exposure. There do not appear to be independent associations of toenail or plasma selenium with FFQ-derived selenium intakes, health-related behaviors, or demographic characteristics.
In this population, increased dietary selenium intake was associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes. These findings raise additional concerns about the association of selenium intake above the Recommended Dietary Allowance (55 μg/day) with diabetes risk.
Our data showed that different selenium exposure indicators can yield different inferences about melanoma risk. Although the series was small, our results are consistent with a positive association between circulating levels of selenium and melanoma risk. Further investigation of the exposure classification performance of various selenium biomarkers and of metabolic patterns of the metalloid and of its speciation are needed to help elucidate the relation between selenium exposure and human health.
Antral gastritis improved in H. pylori-infected GERD patients after 5 years on esomeprazole, with little change in laparoscopic antireflux surgery patients, who acted as a control. Despite a continued proliferative drive on enterochromaffin-like cells during esomeprazole treatment, no dysplastic or neoplastic lesions were found and no safety concerns were raised. NCT 00251927.
Maintenance treatment with omeprazole (20 or 10 mg once daily) is superior to ranitidine (150 mg twice daily) in keeping patients with erosive reflux esophagitis in remission over a 12-month period.
Patients with healed erosive esophagitis receiving esomeprazole for up to 12 months had minor fluctuations in gastric histological scores, similar to those experienced in untreated populations. Use of esomeprazole did not raise any safety concerns with respect to the development of atrophic gastritis, or cause clinically significant changes in enterochromaffin-like cells.
Esomeprazole is effective and well tolerated in the maintenance of a healing erosive esophagitis. Esomeprazole 40 mg and 20 mg maintain healing in over 90% of patients while providing effective control of heartburn symptoms.
Acid-suppressive therapy in the form of omeprazole maintained for 3 years facilitates neither the development of gastric glandular atrophy of the corpus mucosa nor the occurrence of intestinal metaplasia in H. pylori-infected GERD patients.
Long-term omeprazole therapy does not alter the exocrine oxyntic mucosal morphology in H. pylori-negative patients, but mucosal endocrine cells appear to be under proliferative stimulation; in H. pylori-positive patients there are changes in mucosal inflammation and atrophy.
In patients who require continuous treatment with NSAIDs, lansoprazole is superior to ranitidine for healing of NSAID-associated gastric ulcers. Healing is not delayed by the presence of H pylori infection.
From 1977 through 2006, the incidence rate for noncardia gastric cancer declined among all race and age groups except for whites aged 25 to 39 years, for whom it increased. Additional surveillance and analytical studies are warranted to identify risk factors that may explain this unfavorable trend.
Daily pantoprazole maintenance therapy for up to 15 years for severe acid-peptic disease is effective and well tolerated, with no identified safety concerns. The longest study to date, these data provide reassuring evidence for the long-term safety of pantoprazole.
Proton-pump inhibitor treatment over 1-13 years does not shorten the Barrett's oesophagus segment but squamous islands appear in many patients. The incidence of oesophageal adenocarcinoma was low in these proton pump inhibitor-treated patients compared with published series.
H. pylori represents an important factor for the progression of fundic gastritis and the development of argyrophil cell hyperplasia during long-term treatment with lansoprazole.
Maintenance PPIs did not have an association with increased gastric atrophic changes or ECL-cell hyperplasia for at least three years in RCTs.
Maintenance treatment with lansoprazole, 30 mg, is efficacious. The development of glandular atrophy and intestinal metaplasia was not accelerated in Helicobacter pylori-positive patients. Helicobacter pylori eradication must be considered only because of the higher cancer risk associated with chronic Helicobacter pylori-related gastritis.
A high percentage of children (61%) receiving long-term PPI continuously for up to 10.8 years (median 2.84 years) develop minor degrees of ECL hyperplasia. This has no known clinical significance. Children on PPIs for this duration do not appear to develop atrophic gastritis or carcinoid tumours.
(a) Normalization of SIM occurs most frequently in EGJSIM>SSBE>LSBE. (b) Factors associated with normalization favor less severe GER and shorter segments of SIM. (c) Surveillance of LSBE results in the greatest yield for identifying dysplasia and cancer.
Long-term omeprazole therapy (up to 11 years) is highly effective and safe for control of reflux esophagitis.
Patients with reflux esophagitis and H. pylori infection who are treated with omeprazole are at increased risk of atrophic gastritis.
Most H pylori positive GORD patients have a corpus predominant pangastritis during omeprazole maintenance therapy. Eradication of H pylori eliminates gastric mucosal inflammation and induces regression of corpus glandular atrophy. H pylori eradication did not worsen reflux disease or lead to a need for increased omeprazole maintenance dose. We therefore recommend eradication of H pylori in GORD patients receiving long term acid suppression.
Esophagitis healing improves dysphagia and decreases dilatation need in patients with peptic stricture. Omeprazole heals esophagitis and relieves dysphagia more efficaciously than H2RA while decreasing costs to patients.
All patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome who do not have multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 or metastatic disease should be offered surgical exploration for possible cure.
Profound suppression of acid secretion, leading to elimination of acid reflux, induces partial regression of Barrett's oesophagus.
During long-term continuous proton pump inhibitor treatment, serum gastrin and CgA levels are significantly elevated compared to H2RA treatment and nontreated dyspeptic controls. H. pylori infection seems to affect gastric ECL cell secretory function. Increased serum CgA values during long-term profound gastric acid inhibition could reflect either gastric enterochromaffin-like cell hyperfunction or proliferative changes.
H pylori eradication prevents the increase in corpus gastritis associated with profound acid suppressive therapy. Longer follow up is needed to determine if H pylori eradication prevents the development of atrophic gastritis.
For maintenance treatment of reflux esophagitis, omeprazole alone or in combination with cisapride is more effective than ranitidine alone or cisapride alone, and the combination of omeprazole and cisapride is more effective than ranitidine plus cisapride.
Omeprazole 40 mg daily appears to have beneficial effects on CLO, although it rarely induces a complete regression. Whether the benefits will reduce the risk of malignant transformation is unknown.
The results of this study provide the first evidence to show that in patients with prostate cancer undergoing hormonal therapy, nonsteroidal antiandrogen monotherapy produces a significantly lower increase in serum CgA compared with castration.
Bicalutamide 150 mg monotherapy may offer an important advantage compared to castration in terms of bone loss and body composition for patients who require long-term androgen deprivation for localized or locally advanced prostate cancer.
Although a dosage of 50 mg of bicalutamide once daily was not as effective as castration, the favorable quality of life outcomes and the low incidence of nonhormonal adverse events provide reasons to evaluate bicalutamide, as a single therapeutic agent, at higher doses.
Bicalutamide 150-mg monotherapy provides a similar survival outcome to castration in previously untreated patients with nonmetastatic advanced prostate cancer and confers statistically significant benefits over castration with respect to sexual interest and physical capacity.
Monotherapy with 150 mg. bicalutamide is an attractive alternative to castration in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer for whom immediate hormone therapy is indicated.
'Casodex' 150 mg is less effective than castration in patients with M1 disease. However, 'Casodex' has shown a benefit in terms of quality of life and subjective response when compared to castration and has an acceptable tolerability profile. Thus 'Casodex' 150 mg monotherapy is an option for patients with M1 prostate cancer for whom surgical or medical castration is not indicated or is not acceptable.
In patients with well or moderately well differentiated tumors, B monotherapy followed by castration may offer the same survival chance as maximal androgen deprivation. In those patients it thus represents a reasonable choice that can avoid the side effects of androgen deprivation for considerable periods of time.
There was a lower incidence of HGPIN (treated group vs control: 10% vs 27.2%) after 6 months of bicalutamide. Reduction in its extent was also observed (treated group vs control: monofocal 100% vs 50%). Treatment did not affect the incidence of cancer (treated vs control: 5% vs 4.5%).
A weekly administration of bicalutamide seems to be reasonably safe and shows an encouraging signal of activity on HG-PIN prevalence, supporting further studies of this schedule in men at high risk despite the negative primary end-point findings on Ki-67.
Bicalutamide (150 mg) provides significant benefit in patients with locally advanced disease. In previously untreated patients there may be a tumor burden below which endocrine therapy provides no benefit or may even decrease survival.
Bicalutamide 150 mg as immediate therapy, either alone or as adjuvant to treatment of curative intent, significantly reduces the risk of disease progression in patients with early prostate cancer. The trial is ongoing to assess whether the reduction in risk of objective progression translates into an overall survival benefit.
The greatest reduction in the risk of objective progression and PSA doubling with bicalutamide was seen in patients with N+ disease. However, bicalutamide also provided a statistically significant benefit in those with N0 and Nx disease.
This ongoing programme is clarifying the role of early or adjuvant antiandrogen therapy in prostate cancer. Patients with localized disease do not appear to derive clinical benefit from added bicalutamide. However, adding bicalutamide 150 mg to standard care provides significant clinical benefits in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer, irrespective of primary therapy.
In Trial 23 the current data suggest that early or adjuvant therapy may not benefit patients at low risk for recurrence, such as those with localized disease. The findings of Trial 23 contrast with the results in the overall early prostate cancer program and in other published literature, in which bicalutamide has been shown to provide significant clinical benefit for locally advanced disease.
Bicalutamide 150mg significantly reduces the risk of PSA progression, irrespective of whether patients received radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy as standard care. The EPC programme is ongoing and further progression and survival data are awaited.
In patients with locally advanced disease, bicalutamide 150 mg adjuvant to radiotherapy demonstrates significant clinical benefits in terms of overall survival, PFS and PSA-PFS compared with radiotherapy alone. The overall survival benefit in these patients is consistent with prior studies evaluating castration-based therapies adjuvant to radiotherapy (Bolla et al. in Lancet 360:103-108, 2002; Pilepich et al. in Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 61:1285-1290, 2005). In addition, the clinical benefit of bicalutamide 150 mg in locally advanced patients, but not in those with localized disease, is consistent with the overall results from the EPC program (McLeod et al. BJU Int 97:247-254, 2006). Given the quality-of-life advantages of bicalutamide relative to castration, bicalutamide 150 mg adjuvant to radiotherapy is an attractive alternative for men with locally advanced prostate cancer.
Immediate treatment with 150 mg. bicalutamide daily, either alone or as adjuvant to treatment of curative intent, significantly reduces the risk of disease progression in patients with localized or locally advanced prostate cancer. This benefit must be balanced with the morbidity associated with long-term hormonal therapy. Followup is ongoing to determine potential survival benefits of this treatment approach.
Bicalutamide 150 mg/day given as adjuvant to radiotherapy significantly improved PFS in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer. For patients with localised disease, the results at this stage from the radiotherapy subgroup and the overall EPC programme suggest that adjuvant hormonal therapy is currently not appropriate. There were no unexpected tolerability findings.
Bicalutamide 150 mg daily as immediate therapy, alone or as adjuvant to treatment of curative intent, significantly reduced the risk of disease progression in patients with localized or locally advanced prostate cancer. Longer follow-up is underway to assess any benefit in overall survival.
This analysis confirms that bicalutamide provides benefit in patients with locally advanced disease. The current data suggest that early or adjuvant hormonal therapy for patients at low risk of disease progression, such as those with localized disease, is not appropriate.
We did not observe consistent morphological changes in the prostate following treatment with bicalutamide at a dose of 50 mg daily. However, this dose is lower than the 150 mg dose presently recommended for bicalutamide monotherapy.
Bicalutamide appears to reduce the prevalence of positive surgical margins. The upregulation of Her2/neu and EGFR and their phosphorylated forms was an early event after bicalutamide treatment. We hypothesized that the benefits of neoadjuvant hormonal therapy might be overwhelmed by the capacity of the residual tumor to acquire compensatory survival pathways and to grow and progress.
This study would suggest that the measurement of the only basal levels is not sufficient to define as normal the secretion of PRL in advanced prostate cancer, because of the possible existence of altered response to the dynamic tests for PRL secretion. Moreover, the study shows that the antitumor therapy with the new anti-androgen bicalutamide may reduce PRL secretion and improve its paradoxical secretion in response to L.-Dopa. Further studies will be required to better define the possible prognostic impact of changes in PRL secretion on the efficacy of treatments for metastatic prostate cancer.
Total androgen deprivation in comparison to flutamide alone caused a larger reduction in prostate size. As a marker of hormonal failure, a rising PSA was more sensitive than an increase in prostate size.
Androgen deprivation therapy is associated with decline in QOL, particularly in the domains of physical function, energy, and general health status. This survey demonstrated that antiandrogens had a better QOL profile than LHRH-analogue containing therapies;furthermore, a more favourable tolerability for cyproterone acetate as compared to bicalutamide is suggested.
Involution and epithelial shrinkage of prostate cancer and HGPIN were evident after neoadjuvant treatment with bicalutamide 150 mg. There was no evidence of the emergence of higher-grade cancer after treatment.
The trial shows no significant differences in efficacy between Flutamide and CPA monotherapy. The number of patients who died of prostate cancer up to this time is insufficient for a definitive analysis of specific survival. Erectile function and sexual activity are not preserved with FLU but decay slowly with both antiandrogens, toxicity is more pronounced with FLU.
Biochemical markers of bone turnover are elevated in men receiving gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist treatment but not in men receiving bicalutamide monotherapy. These observations suggest that bicalutamide monotherapy may maintain bone mineral density and prevent fractures.
Bicalutamide (50 mg.) daily was well tolerated and efficacious. However, suboptimal effects on prostate specific antigen have led to additional trials to evaluate monotherapy at higher doses.
With an estimated 2.9 million new cases (54% occurring in men, 46% in women) and 1.7 million deaths (56% in men, 44% in women) each year, cancer remains an important public health problem in Europe, and the ageing of the European population will cause these numbers to continue to increase even if age-specific rates remain constant. To make great progress quickly against cancer in Europe, the need is evident to make a concerted attack on the big killers: lung, colorectal, breast and stomach cancer. Stomach cancer rates are falling everywhere in Europe and public health measures are available to reduce the incidence and mortality of lung cancer, colorectal cancer and breast cancer.
Orchiectomy for prostate cancer is frequently followed by severe osteoporosis, some of which had developed before castration. Appropriate therapy should be identified that does not diminish the antitumorigenic effectiveness of androgen ablation.
Longer duration of adjuvant GnRHa therapy does not appear to increase cardiovascular mortality in men with locally advanced prostate cancer.
Self-reported conflicts of interest are common in orthopaedic research, particularly in the subspecialty fields of adult reconstruction of the knee, adult reconstruction of the hip, and spine. Presentations authored by individuals with a conflict of interest related to royalties, stock options, or consulting or employee status were significantly more likely to describe positive findings. While there may be distinct benefits associated with industry support of orthopaedic research, safeguards must be established to maintain public trust in the medical research establishment.
Survival after therapy with an LHRH agonist was equivalent to that after orchiectomy. No evidence shows a difference in effectiveness among the LHRH agonists. Survival rates may be somewhat lower if a nonsteroidal antiandrogen is used as monotherapy.
Industry funded studies demonstrated a statistically greater likelihood to report positive results than studies with other funding sources. Potential explanations for this are biased study design, biased experimental technique, biased result interpretation, or publication bias. Although the expense of research and limited funding sources have forced an increased reliance on industry support for funding basic science and clinical spine research, this does introduce the potential for bias and must be recognized by the reader.
Trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses may be prone to bias associated with post-randomization exclusion of patients. Wherever possible, the level of such exclusions should be taken into account when assessing the potential for bias in trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses. Ideally, trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses should be based on all randomized patients.
Antiandrogens are a treatment option in some patients with prostate cancer. However, it has to be taken into account that the hormonal effect is inferior to castration.
Our review shows that missing outcome data are a common problem in randomized controlled trials, and are often inadequately handled in the statistical analysis in the top tier medical journals. Authors should explicitly state the assumptions underlying the handling of the missing outcomes and justify them through data descriptions and sensitivity analyses.
Among patients undergoing operative intervention for recurrent ovarian cancer, the proportion of patients undergoing complete cytoreductive surgery is independently associated with overall post-recurrence survival time. For this select group of patients, the surgical objective should be resection of all macroscopic disease.
Complete cytoreduction is possible for the majority of patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma and maximizes survival if undertaken before salvage chemotherapy. The authors believe a randomized trial should be initiated to confirm these findings.
The present data seem to show that complete salvage surgical cytoreduction significantly improves further survival of ovarian cancer patients who recur at least 6 months after the completion of primary therapy.
This large national survey confirms that the majority of women with ovarian carcinoma are symptomatic and frequently have delays in diagnosis.
Macroscopically complete surgical cytoreduction significantly improves further survival of recurrent ovarian cancer patients. However, we remain in need to evaluate the debulkability of tumor before surgery to maximize the survival benefit and minimize the number of ineffective surgeries.
Only complete resection was associated with prolonged survival in recurrent ovarian cancer. The identified criteria panel will be verified in a prospective trial (AGO-DESKTOP II) evaluating whether it will render a useful tool for selecting the right patients for cytoreductive surgery in recurrent ovarian cancer.
Patients who have documented gross disease preoperatively should be selected for a secondary debulking operation; the entity of surgical effort would be modulated in relation to previous treatment.
Gemcitabine and vinorelbine combination is effective and well tolerated in recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer. It may represent an option in the management of these patients because the chronic nature of the disease.
Patients with ovarian cancer were more likely than patients with breast cancer and women in a cancer-free control group to have target symptom codes (particularly abdominal swelling and pain) > 6 months before diagnosis. The evaluation of women with unexplained "target symptoms" should include pelvic imaging and/or CA125.
Combination bevacizumab therapy demonstrated activity in heavily pretreated women with ovarian cancer. Gastrointestinal perforations were identified in 9%. Despite the toxicity of the regimen, prospective studies, particularly in less heavily pretreated patients, are warranted.
Initial experience suggests that EUS-guided direct celiac ganglion block or neurolysis is safe. Alcohol injection into ganglia appears to be effective in both cancer and chronic pancreatitis. Prospective trials are needed to confirm the efficacy of this new approach.
This study indicates that (1) the prognosis of PDAC remains poor and (2) careful histopathological review of all patients with pancreatic cancer is mandatory if survival data are to be meaningful.
This paper emphasizes the grim prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Five-year survival cannot be equated to cure. Although pancreatectomy offers the only chance for long-term survival, it should be considered as the best palliative procedure currently available for the majority of patients. This emphasizes the need for the development of novel and effective adjuvant therapies for this disease.
This paper emphasises the grim prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Five-year survival cannot be equated to cure. Although pancreatectomy offers the only chance for long-term survival, it should be considered as the best palliative procedure currently available for the majority of patients. This emphasises the need for the development of novel and effective adjuvant therapies for this disease.
Gastrointestinal symptoms of cancer pain patients undergoing an opioid therapy are related to multifactorial causes. Transdermal opioids showed no benefit over oral controlled-release hydromorphone with regard to gastrointestinal symptoms. The conversion ratios for transdermal fentanyl, transdermal buprenorphine, and oral hydromorphone did not accord to the literature, because of differing occurrences of opioid tolerance after long-term therapy.
By searching systematically we found 17% of published full reports of randomised trials and 28% of the patient data were duplicated. Trials reporting greater treatment effect were significantly more likely to be duplicated. Inclusion of duplicated data in meta-analysis led to a 23% overestimation of ondansetron's antiemetic efficacy.
Apixaban was well tolerated in our study population. These results support further study of apixaban in phase III trials to prevent VTE in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
These highly encouraging response and survival results compare favorably with any prior CALGB group study. Although they are somewhat more toxic, they are comparable to the best published results. A randomized study that examines the role of warfarin is underway.
This result does not confirm the hypothesis that, in SCLC, aspirin (a platelet aggregation inhibitor) reduces metastasis formation and local tumor thrombogenesis.
Coumarin is not effective therapy for women who have lymphedema of the arm after treatment for breast cancer.
The incidence of newly diagnosed clinically overt cancer is not reduced in patients with idiopathic venous thromboembolism treated with 1-year anticoagulant treatment compared with patients treated for 3 months.
Persistent activation of the coagulant pathway plays a role in the preclinical phase of cancer and is associated with an increased incidence of clinical malignancy, especially of the digestive tract.
The risk of newly diagnosed cancer after a first episode of venous thromboembolism is elevated during at least the following two years. Subsequently, the risk seems to be lower among patients treated with oral anticoagulants for six months than among those treated for six weeks.
Anticoagulation showed a survival benefit, especially for those with SCLC and prolonged life expectancy, and reduced the risk of VTE in lung cancer patients with no indication for anticoagulants. Subcutaneous heparin is superior to VKA because of a potentially smaller risk of major bleeding.
Due to the early termination of this study, the effectiveness of concurrent use of carboplatin remains unclear. We re-planned and started a study with an active quality control program which was developed by the JCOG Radiotherapy Committee.
This study failed to show a significant survival advantage for any of the treatment arms or factors. Halving overall treatment time resulted in significantly greater oesophageal toxicity with no suggestion of a survival advantage.
Concurrent RT-CT was not the more costly strategy in this phase III trial, despite lengthier hospitalization for toxicity. Other studies of similar design are needed to confirm these results in future randomized trials.
Concurrent chemoradiotherapy has the potential of improving the survival rate of stage III NSCLC, it can also increase the acute toxic effect, but all patients can tolerate this treatment regimen.
Cisplatin, given daily in combination with the radiotherapy described here to patients with nonmetastatic but inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer, improved rates of survival and control of local disease at the price of substantial side effects.
Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is well tolerated in most unresectable stage IIIA-IIIB NSCLC patients. Its early response is better than sequential chemoradiotherapy.
In a homogeneously treated group of patients with grade III AOTs, INA expression had strong favorable prognostic significance for OS and may have predictive value for sensitivity to chemotherapy.
Nucleotide sequence of L segment of Hantavirus strain A9 revealed homology between 85.2% -70.8% to different types of Hantavirus and shared a higher homology of 85.2% to strain 76-118.
OD lesions with combined a loss of 1p and 19q have a more indolent nature compared with OD lesions that do not have these losses. Virtually all patients with these tumors present with low-grade tumors accompanied by seizures and remain stable for prolonged periods. Future trials must keep these tumor types apart.
Mutations of NADP(+)-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenases encoded by IDH1 and IDH2 occur in a majority of several types of malignant gliomas.
These trials provide insufficient evidence to support the routine use of adjuvant chemotherapy in clinical practice due to small sample sizes, confusing analyses and terminology, and the reporting of questionable conclusions. Analyses of the duration of survival were either not done or were inconclusive and quality of life has not been considered. New large scale, multicenter trials are imperative in order to provide convincing results.
We conclude that pediatric febrile cancer patients initially considered at risk for sepsis due to prolonged neutropenia can be re-evaluated at 72 hr for outpatient therapy. The convenience, low incidence of adverse effects, and cost benefit of the once-daily regimen of C + A may be particularly useful to reduce the overall treatment costs and duration of hospitalization.
Cefepime is a safe and very effective therapy for patients with acute leukemia and febrile neutropenia; in addition, it is a cheaper regimen in our country, and lacks the potential toxicity of the aminoglycosides.
Cefepime monotherapy appeared to have an equivalent efficacy and safety as empiric treatment in febrile neutropenia episodes in a highrisk population compared with ceftazidime and amikacin. Nevertheless, this study is not adequately powered to answer this question. Given the small number of patients randomized and the single-center nature of this study, these results must be cautiously interpreted.
Imipenem/cilastatine and the combination of ceftazidime with amikacin were equally effective in the treatment of febrile episodes in neutropenic patients.
The clinical effectiveness of I/C was similar to that of P/T+A. In both treatment groups toxicity was low and did not limit antibiotic therapy. Resource consumption was lower with I/C.
Compared with beta-lactam monotherapy, the aminoglycoside/ beta-lactam combination was not associated with a beneficial effect on the development of antimicrobial resistance among initially antimicrobial-susceptible isolates.
In the treatment of sepsis the addition of an aminoglycoside to beta lactams should be discouraged. Fatality remains unchanged, while the risk for adverse events is increased.
The use of cefepime for febrile neutropenia is associated with increased mortality and should be carefully considered pending further analysis. Empirical use of carbapenems entails fewer treatment modifications, but an increased rate of pseudomembranous colitis. Ceftazidime, piperacillin/tazobactam, imipenem/cilastatin and meropenem appear to be suitable agents for monotherapy.
This risk assessment model accurately stratified the medical risk of these patients using only clinical information available on the first day of their course. Low-risk patients are an appropriate population in which to study less intensive treatment strategies.
Following resection of HCC in the setting of no cirrhosis, more than one-half of patients were alive after 5 years. However, even among patients with no cirrhosis, recurrence was common. Factors associated with RFS and overall survival included tumor characteristics, such as tumor capsule, satellite lesions, and vascular invasion.
Our preliminary experience in using HIFU for recurrent HCC is promising. Further studies are needed to explore its treatment value for primary HCC.
Findings from this meta-analysis strongly support that EBW or obesity is associated with an increased risk of PLC in both males and females.
The discriminating power of BCLC staging was prospectively assessed in an Italian cohort of HCC patients treated mainly with radical therapies.
There has been a significant recent increase in HCV- and HBV-related HCC. Increasing rates of HCV-related HCC can explain a substantial proportion of the reported increase in HCC incidence during recent years.
RFA seems to be a superior ablative therapy than PEI for HCC, particularly for tumours >2 cm. PAI did not differ significantly from PEI for all the outcomes evaluated. RFA and PAI have similar survival rates. For tumours 2 cm outcome benefits comparing RFA and PEI are similar. PAI needs re-evaluation versus both PEI and RFA for tumours 2 cm.
In high exposure areas, aflatoxin multiplicatively interacts with HBV to induce HCC; reducing aflatoxin exposure to non-detectable levels could reduce HCC cases in high-risk areas by about 23%. The decreasing PAR of aflatoxin-related HCC reflects the benefits of public health interventions to reduce aflatoxin and HBV.
The evidence is inconclusive to establish a relation between oral contraceptives and the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma. Future studies should focus on the duration, intermittency, and recency of OC use.
The modified JIS score, a staging system that combines tumor factors and hepatic function, is a better predictor of prognosis than other systems in HCC patients who have undergone hepatic resection.
Child-Pugh score and alpha-fetoprotein levels were the only independent predictors of survival in patients with HCC. Child-Pugh score showed a better prediction value for survival when compared with MELD. BCLC is more accurate than the other prognostic models evaluated in this investigation.
Our results suggest that HCC incidence rates will continue to increase in Canada during the next decade as persons born in more recent birth cohorts, who face a relatively greater risk for HCC, age.
The present study provides further evidence that obesity and DM increase HCC risk and that these factors may explain a relevant proportion of cases among subjects without markers of HBV/HCV infection.
The results of this meta-analysis suggested an inverse association between coffee consumption and liver cancer. Because of the small number of studies, further prospective studies are needed.
Bias associated with specific reported study design characteristics leads to exaggeration of beneficial intervention effect estimates and increases in between-trial heterogeneity. For each of the three characteristics assessed, these effects were greatest for subjectively assessed outcomes. Assessments of the risk of bias in RCTs should account for these findings. Further research is needed to understand the effects of attrition bias, as well as the relative importance of blinding of patients, care-givers and outcome assessors, and thus separate the effects of performance and detection bias.
The incidence of and mortality from ICC are rising markedly in Germany. The risk factors underlying this trend are as yet unclear.
Based on a meta-analysis, increased intake of vegetables, but not fruit, is associated with lower risk for HCC. The risk of HCC decreases by 8% for every 100 g/d increase in vegetable intake. The findings should be confirmed by future studies with validated questionnaires and strict control of confounders.
A liberal transfusion strategy, as compared with a restrictive strategy, did not reduce rates of death or inability to walk independently on 60-day follow-up or reduce in-hospital morbidity in elderly patients at high cardiovascular risk. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; FOCUS ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Both RBC and platelet transfusions are associated with increased risks of venous and arterial thrombotic events and mortality in hospitalized patients with cancer. Further investigation is necessary to determine whether this relationship is causal.
Measurement of haematocrit count is easy and can be performed in most rural health care centres. However, the corresponding Hgb levels cannot be derived with an acceptable accuracy using the value 3 as a conversion factor. Furthermore, the commonly assumed 'equivalent' cut-off points for anaemia definitions need to be re-evaluated.
This large study has accurately documented the clinical disciplines that are significant users of RBCs in our service area. It has heightened general understanding of RBC usage within hospitals. It has also raised questions on future strategies for reducing allogeneic blood transfusion that will be important if anticipated major reductions in blood supply occur in the near future.
The pedicled omental transposition for reinforcing the anastomotic suture line significantly reduces the incidence of leakage after esophagogastrectomy for carcinoma of the esophagus, thus decreasing the morbidity and mortality of the procedure.
Omentoplasty reinforcement of esophagogastric anastomoses did not have any beneficial effect on anastomotic healing in this animal experiment.
Omentopexy may improve vascularization and decrease stricture formation after primary esophagoesophageal anastomosis.
The omental pedicled flap, performed as described, may provide reliable protection for carotid and innominate artery exposure, adding little time to the procedure.
Omentoplasty to reinforce cervical esophagogastrostomy decreases anastomotic failure following radical esophagectomy with three-field lymph node dissection.
Omentoplasty of cervical esophagogastrostomy reduced anastomotic leakage. Although promising, these observations require confirmation with a randomized prospective study.
Postoperative esophageal anastomotic leaks prove fatal in a significant number of cases. The lethal potential of cervical anastomotic leaks should not be underestimated. Gastric necrosis is an important predictor of subsequent death. Advanced age, early postoperative (<7 days) leakage, and clinically apparent signs of leakage may be predictive of death but these factors did not reach statistical significance in our study. Surgical treatment of esophageal anastomotic leaks is associated with subsequent death, but this relationship is unlikely to be causal; severely ill patients tend to be treated surgically.
Surgical complications have no negative impact on survival rates, which seem to depend exclusively on the pathologic stage of the tumor.
In our experience cervical esophagogastric anastomoses do not have a higher incidence of leaks than thoracic anastomoses.
In the largest population-based study to date assessing long-term outcome after esophagectomy for esophageal cancer, transhiatal esophagectomy confers an early survival advantage, but long-term survival does not appear to differ according to surgical approach.
Transhiatal esophagectomy has a role in a pragmatic individualized approach to esophageal cancer. As an alternative to a standardized en bloc transthoracic esophagectomy, the transhiatal approach may be suitable for patients with predicted node-negative cancers or those with resectable disease who are not candidates for TTE because of co-morbidity.
The surgical approach to oesophagectomy was not an important determinant of morbidity and long-term survival in patients with oesophageal carcinoma. Transhiatal oesophagectomy was associated with a higher incidence of anastomotic complications and recurrent laryngeal nerve injury. Ivor-Lewis oesophagectomy had a higher mortality. In order to demonstrate a significant difference in morbidity or long-term survival between the two techniques 3100 patients would be required in each arm of a prospective randomized trial.
In our region, patients with esophageal cancer who underwent esophagectomy in the university hospital had a markedly better relative survival compared with those who underwent surgery at teaching nonuniversity and nonteaching hospitals, emphasizing the need for referral of esophageal surgery to centers with a greater experience.
In spite of effective screening methods, cervical cancer continues to be a major public health problem. New methodologies of cervical cancer prevention should be made available and accessible for women of all countries through well-organised programmes.
HPV appears to be the key risk factor for cervical adenocarcinoma. HPV testing in primary screening using current mixtures of HPV types and HPV vaccination against main HPV types should reduce the incidence of this cancer worldwide.
The HPV16 L1 VLP vaccine is well tolerated and is highly immunogenic even without adjuvant, with the majority of the recipients achieving serum antibody titers that were approximately 40-fold higher than what is observed in natural infection.
Administration of this HPV-16 vaccine reduced the incidence of both HPV-16 infection and HPV-16-related cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Immunizing HPV-16-negative women may eventually reduce the incidence of cervical cancer.
Bethesda 2001 was developed with broad participation in the consensus process. The 2001 Bethesda System terminology reflects important advances in biological understanding of cervical neoplasia and cervical screening technology.
In terminally ill patients, PleurX catheter use resulted in improvement of ascites-related discomfort and was associated with low rates of serious adverse clinical events and catheter failure.
Paracentesis provides symptom relief that can be measured by existing questionnaires. For future clinical trials of symptomatic ascites, the QLQ-C30 and the ESAS:AM together, or the QLQ-C30 with the addition of the QLQ-PAN26 ascites and abdominal pain subscales could be used.
Artificial hydration therapy could alleviate membranous dehydration signs, but could worsen peripheral edema, ascites and pleural effusions. It is suggested that the potential benefits of artificial hydration therapy should be balanced with the risk of worsening fluid retention symptoms. Further clinical studies are strongly needed to identify the effects of artificial hydration therapy on overall patient well-being, and an individualized treatment and close monitoring of dehydration and fluid retention symptoms is strongly recommended.
Based on the quality indicators developed in this study, there is considerable variability in the quality of pancreatic cancer care in the United States. Hospitals can use these indicators to evaluate the pancreatic cancer care they provide and to identify potential quality improvement opportunities.
This study suggests that extended lymphadenectomy with dissection of the nerve plexus does not provide a significant survival benefit compared with standard resection in pancreatic head cancer. Standard resection can be performed safely and efficiently, without negatively affecting oncologic efficacy or long-term survival, when compared with extended pancreaticoduodenal resection. (
Nodal involvement and Plx invasion differed significantly among carcinomas of the pancreatic head area. We believe that nodal dissection of at least group number 14 is needed for Ph, Bi, and Pv cancers. In addition, dissection of lymph nodes of number 16 and the Plx around the superior mesenteric artery and celiac axis are needed in Ph cancer. Plx dissection of the first portion of plexus pancreaticus capitalis is needed in Bi cancer.
The results of this study suggest that extended radical pancreatectomy may be indicated for patients with pancreatic carcinoma because standard dissection may fail when the tumor has spread to the retroperitoneum or extrapancreatic nerve plexus.
Although this multicenter RCT was conducted in a strict setting, extended lymphadenectomy in radical PD did not benefit long-term survival in patients with resectable pancreatic head cancer and led to levels of morbidity, mortality and quality of life comparable to those found after standard lymphadenectomy.
Proper attention to signs and symptoms, especially cholestasis, may help identify patients with pancreatic cancer at an earlier stage. Results also provide a current picture of the semiology of pancreatic cancer which could be of use in studies on the potential of proteomic tests in the early detection of this neoplasm.
The findings of our study suggest that perfusion MR imaging may be used to differentiate recurrent intra-axial metastatic tumor from gamma knife-induced radiation necrosis.
Analysis of patient and treatment variables revealed V8 Gy-V16 Gy to be the best predictors for RN using linear accelerator-based single-fraction SRS for brain metastases. We propose that patients with V10 Gy >10.5 cm(3) or V12 Gy >7.9 cm(3) be considered for hypofractionated rather than single-fraction treatment, to minimize the risk of symptomatic RN.
Radiation necrosis is a very significant complication of radiation treatment of brain cancers and may have a tremendous impact on a patient's quality of life. The early diagnosis of radiation necrosis in patients receiving radiation therapy to the brain has improved with current neuro-imaging modalities and better understanding of its pathophysiology. The development of treatment modalities has been slower, but is nonetheless promising.
In this review, frameless stereotaxis was helpful in guiding the surgeon; however, IOMRI did not provide any additional benefit for the surgical treatment of radiation necrosis. Surgical treatment of radiation necrosis was associated with high risks of complication or neurologic deficit. Given the success of medical therapies, including hyperbaric oxygen, we believe that surgical treatment of radiation necrosis should be reserved for symptomatic patients in whom medical therapy has failed.
VEGF expression appears to play an important role in CNS radiation injury. This focuses attention on VEGF and other genes induced in response to hypoxia as targets for therapy to reduce or prevent CNS radiation damage.
The maximum tolerated doses of single fraction radiosurgery were defined for this population of patients as 24 Gy, 18 Gy, and 15 Gy for tumors </= 20 mm, 21-30 mm, and 31-40 mm in maximum diameter. Unacceptable CNS toxicity was more likely in patients with larger tumors, whereas local tumor control was most dependent on the type of recurrent tumor and the treatment unit.
The presence of CSI and increasing number of PPN were associated with poor prognosis. On average, patients with CSI experienced improved PFS and OS when treated with AP relative to WAI.
Adjuvant combination CT with P + C and sequential RT is well tolerated and a feasible regimen in patients with HREC. Subsequent phase-III trials are warranted.
The current analysis suggests that among patients with advanced or recurrent endometrial cancer, complete cytoreduction to no gross residual disease is associated with superior overall survival outcome. The unexpected correlation between treatment modality and survival may be a surrogate marker for more precise factors such as location of disease, performance status, or cytoreductive status post-operatively, which may have influenced the decision to administer adjuvant radiation versus chemotherapy and were not able to be controlled for given the limitations of the extracted data.
More intense combination chemotherapy significantly improves the disease-free survival and the data indicate a modest improvement in OS. The addition of anthracyclines (e.g. doxorubicin) or the taxanes [e.g. paclitaxel (Taxol)] to cisplatin increases the response rate. More intensive regimens are associated with the gain in survival. However, grade 3 and 4 myelosuppression and gastrointestinal toxicity are also increased. Future developments are likely to exploit specific molecular characteristics of endometrial cancers, including their hormone dependence, growth factor target overexpression and PTEN loss. While no one drug or regimen offers a clear benefit for women with advanced endometrial cancer, platinum drugs, anthracyclines and paclitaxel seem the most promising agents. Future trials should address the impact of such agents on QoL and symptom control in addition to survival. Chemotherapy and endocrine therapy need to be compared directly in an RCT.
Our data suggest the effectiveness of sedation in relieving severe, refractory physical symptoms in terminally ill Japanese patients with cancer. Further investigation to confirm safety and effectiveness of sedation in this context is warranted.
Nausea and vomiting side effects limit the analgesic efficiency of current opioid therapies. There is a clear need for the development of improved opioid-based analgesics that mitigate these intolerable effects.
The compound ABHR is generally well tolerated in the majority of hospice patients. More investigation is warranted to determine the efficacy and tolerability of similar pharmaceutical compounds used commonly in the hospice patient population.
Cisplatin caused severe emesis that persisted despite rescue in placebo-treated patients. Using the data presented, any therapy preventing acute emesis in 8 or more of the 48 individuals receiving cisplatin > 50 mg/m2 was an active antiemetic (P = 0.05). The four trials discussed here documented the antiemetic effectiveness of granisetron, metoclopramide, and ondansetron. The placebo-treated patients studied can serve as a control group for testing new therapies. Because of the certainty of severe emesis after cisplatin, and the availability both of these data and several proven drugs for this condition, prospective comparisons of antiemetics should employ active control medications.
The pelvic control or actuarial complication rates were comparable between HDR and LDR treatment. The difference between the disease specific survival rates for HDR and LDR was not statistically significant for Stage II or III, although in Stage II, patients treated with LDR appeared to have a better survival rate than those treated with HDR.
Treatment results in terms of cause-specific survival were equivalent for HDR and LDR treatment. However, the incidence of complications was higher for the HDR group, although within acceptable levels, than for the LDR group.
From the previous reports from Osaka University Medical School, as well as others, HDR was proposed as an alternative to LDR brachytherapy for treatment of carcinoma of the uterine cervix. In this report, Selectron-MDR was nearly equivalent to the microSelectron-HDR as regards survival and loco-regional control rates as well as radiation-induced complication. This is a preliminary report, and the study still needs larger number of patients, and longer follow-up period.
Similar outcome was observed for LDR compared with HDR intracavitary brachytherapy for the entire cohort. In this review, HDR group was not inferior to LDR group in advanced stages. This is likely because our patients were treated with brachytherapy after a high dose of external pelvic radiotherapy in both LDR and HDR patients.
This comparative series suggests similar outcome for Stages I and II patients treated with either HDR or LDR brachytherapy. Lower overall and disease-free survival and marginally lower local control were observed for Stage III patients treated with HDR brachytherapy. Less late rectal complications were observed in the HDR group patients. These findings were probably the result of the relatively low HDR brachytherapy dose delivered at Point A.
The relevance of tumor size (less or greater than 4 cm) is now recognized in the 1995 revised FIGO staging in Stage Ib but unfortunately not in other stages. Tumor size per stage and nodal status should be systematically recorded to allow a better prediction of failure rates and to compare literature reports.
We report excellent local and regional pelvic control results using a 6 fraction IS-HDR brachytherapy protocol for cervical carcinoma. The incidence of severe complications is low and suggests that a consistent brachytherapy technique and multiple HDR fractions are therapeutically advantageous to patients treated for cervical carcinoma.
The data suggested that the new scoring system defined by pelvic examination is a convenient, simple, and reliable method of measuring the degree of parametrial extension and predicting the outcome of patients with parametrial disease.
A combined interstitial-intracavitary applicator results in reproducible implants for cervical cancer brachytherapy. MRI-based treatment planning based on a target concept, dose-volume constraints, and limitations for the relative dwell weight allows for an increase in target coverage, treated volume, and total dose without increasing the dose to critical structures.
Carcinoma of the cervix involutes rapidly with EBRT, concurrent cisplatin-based chemotherapy, and HDR brachytherapy. The time for 50% tumor regression was calculated to be 21 days and occurs after 30.8 Gy. In addition, uterine sleeve placement allowed us to document the median and maximum ranges of cervical mobility during the treatment course of EBRT to be 8-16 mm and 23-36 mm, and at the time of HDR brachytherapy to be 5-12 mm and 11-32 mm, respectively. These data indicate that the cervix gross tumor volume changes rapidly in a systematic fashion during chemoradiotherapy and, together with the mobility of the cervix, urge caution in nonbrachytherapy boost planning.
Sequential FDG-PET brachytherapy imaging identifies the tumor response in individual patients, potentially making patient-specific brachytherapy treatment planning possible.
Our study shows that if the STP approach had been used, a significantly higher dose would have been delivered, and that STP tables accounting for differences in implant geometry should be carefully considered.
Our study findings reveal a strong correlation between ICRU rectal reference dose and volumetric rectal D2 cc dose in combined intracavitary-interstitial HDR brachytherapy. This surrogate rectal-dose relationship is valuable in establishing rectal tolerance dose levels in transitioning from traditional two-dimensional to image-based three-dimensional dose planning.
Patients scheduled for a laparotomy and major intestinal or rectal resection are suitable for management by a pathway of controlled rehabilitation with early ambulation and diet. Pathway patients have a shorter hospital stay, with no adverse effect on patient satisfaction, pain scores, or complication rates. Patients younger than 70 years of age derive the optimal benefit, and increased surgeon experience improves outcome.
This RCT provides level 1b evidence that a multimodal management protocol can significantly reduce postoperative stay following colorectal cancer surgery. Morbidity and mortality are not increased.
The fast-track program reduces the rate of postoperative complications and length of hospital stay and should be considered as standard care. Fluid restriction and an effective epidural analgesia are the key factors that determine outcome of the fast-track program.
Following the FT protocol helped to reduce frequency of postoperative complications and reduced hospital stay. We conclude that the FT strategy is safe and effective in improving postoperative outcomes.
A 'restrictive' [corrected] fluid regimen led to a transient improvement in pulmonary function and postoperative hypoxaemia but no other differences in all-over physiological recovery compared with a 'liberal' [corrected] fluid regimen after fast-track colonic surgery. Since morbidity tended to be increased with the 'restrictive' fluid regimen, future studies should focus on the effect of individualized 'goal-directed' fluid administration strategies rather than fixed fluid amounts on postoperative outcome.
This study indicates that early feeding and opioid-sparing analgesia after open appendectomy is safe and reduces length of hospital stay without deterioration of pain control.
FT protocols show high-level evidence on reducing primary and total hospital stay without compromising patients' safety offering lower morbidity and the same readmission rates. Enhanced recovery programs should become a mainstay of elective colorectal surgery.
The statistical method may influence the inference drawn from a meta-analysis that includes zero-event trials. Robustness assessments are needed to reduce bias in meta-analyses that include zero-event trials.
The Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) Group presents a comprehensive evidence-based consensus review of perioperative care for colorectal surgery. It is based on the evidence available for each element of the multimodal perioperative care pathway.
Laparoscopic resection for colon and rectosigmoid cancer is feasible, safe and has many short-term benefits.
FT appears to be safe and shortens hospital stay after elective colorectal surgery. However, as the evidence is limited, a multicentre randomized trial seems justified.
Percutaneous ethanol injection therapy appears to be as safe and effective as resection, and both treatments can be considered first-line options for small hepatocellular carcinoma.
RFTA was superior to PEI and PAI with respect to local recurrence, overall survival, and cancer free survival rates, but RFTA also caused more major complications.
PEI may be a treatment option for cirrhotic patients who have HCC and coexisting contraindications that preclude surgery and TACE. Careful pre-treatment patient selection may effectively prolong the survival.
PAI and PEI are equally effective in the treatment of HCC. PAI has the advantage of fewer treatment sessions in each treatment course. Careful pretreatment patient selection may improve survival.
Patients with large HCC undergoing TACE tend to have a more favourable long-term outcome. For small HCC, either TACE or PAI therapy could be recommended as the primary treatment modality.
The aforementioned treatment modalities yielded greater improvements of the survival rate and survival duration as compared to palliative treatment in HCC patients. Furthermore, in terms of the effect on the survival period, combined TACE + PEI/RFA therapy was more effective than TACE monotherapy, and also more effective than PEI or RFA monotherapy in cases with multiple tumors fulfilling the Milan criteria.
Ethanol ablation performed with a multipronged injection needle was not associated with any major complications and resulted in a high rate of confirmed CR. This technique offers an alternative to RF ablation for single-session treatment of early-stage HCC.
These data suggest that ethanol injection prolongs the life of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma associated with Child's A cirrhosis but seems not to influence the survival of Child's B patients.
Increased body weight was associated with increased death rates for all cancers combined and for cancers at multiple specific sites.
An increase in the number of cases of hepatocellular carcinoma has occurred in the United States over the past two decades. The age-specific incidence of this cancer has progressively shifted toward younger people.
Among men with diabetes, the risk of CNLD and HCC is doubled. This increase in risk is independent of alcoholic liver disease, viral hepatitis, or demographic features.
The results show that RF ablation yielded better clinical outcomes than conventional and higher-dose PEI in treating HCC 4 cm or less.
Judging from higher survival but similar adverse events, radiofrequency ablation is superior to ethanol injection for small hepatocellular carcinoma.
Patients discharged with a diagnosis of fatty liver have an increased risk of cancer, in particular liver cancer, most prominently among patients with alcoholic fatty liver.
This large multicentric survey shows that surgery is in current practice widely applied among patients with multinodular, large, and macrovascular invasive HCC, providing acceptable short- and long-term results and justifying an update of the EASL/AASLD therapeutic guidelines in this sense.
GC has a comparably acceptable toxicity profile compared with that of GP and seems active in patients with TCC.
Dose-dense sequential chemotherapy is tolerable and active in patients with urothelial carcinoma and renal impairment. Prolonged disease-free survival is achievable in a subset of patients with primary unresectable disease or lymph-node only metastases treated with carboplatin-based therapy +/- surgical consolidation. Randomized trials are needed to define the optimal regimen in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma and renal impairment.
This randomized controlled trial indicates that cognitive-behavioral interventions are effective for reducing behavioral risk and preventing STIs and UPs in young, sexually active women who are not seeking health care.
Establishing the efficacy of a social marketing campaign is challenging. This group randomized trial showed a null effect. Social marketing campaigns may need to have more media channels and saturation before they can show behavioral effects. Using a nested design with randomization at the community level and probability sampling introduces rigor not commonly seen in evaluations of social marketing campaigns.
Outcomes suggest that skills training can increase female condom use and protected sexual acts without reducing male condom use among women.
These results provide partial support for the hypothesis that an IMB model-based intervention leads to reductions in sexual risk behavior and suggest directions for future research.
The computer-based transtheoretical model-tailored intervention resulted in a 70% increase in reported dual-method contraceptive use in a group of women at high risk for STIs and unintended pregnancy. Inconsistent use of dual methods may explain the lack of effect on unintended pregnancy rates and incident STIs.
Tailored cognitive/behavioral minimal self-help interventions hold promise as HIV/STD prevention strategies for diverse populations of young at-risk women.
A risk-reduction intervention consisting of three small-group sessions significantly decreased the rates of chlamydial and gonorrheal infection among Mexican-American and African-American women at high risk for sexually transmitted disease.
This individualized safer sex intervention may improve condom use and decrease the number of partners among adolescent girls who have had an STD. Studies with larger samples are needed to determine definitive intervention effects on recurrent STD in this high-risk population.
These results provide supporting evidence as to how theoretical variables operate to effect change within a theory-based intervention and provide evidence as to the applicability of a prevailing theory of HIV risk behavior among low-income minority women.
Many clients of public STD clinics will try, and some will continue, to use female condoms when they are promoted positively and when women are trained to use them correctly and to promote them to their partners. A behavioral intervention that promotes both female and male condoms can increase barrier use.
Women at risk of STDs find the female condom acceptable and will try it, and some use it consistently. Mixing use of female condoms and male condoms may facilitate consistent condom use. The female condom may improve an individual's options for risk reduction and help reduce the spread of STDs.
The enhanced intervention increased use of condoms and vaginal microbicide; however, STD rates did not decrease because a protective effect was seen only among perfect barrier users, and the enhanced intervention only modestly increased perfect use.
Findings support the development of long-range educational strategies that recognize the career longevity of prostitutes, available channels for informal program diffusion, individual changes in condom use over time, and the role of clients in condom negotiation.
Receipt of 2 or more CAMI sessions, either alone or within a multicomponent home-based intervention, reduced the risk of rapid subsequent birth to adolescent mothers.
Monthly follow-up provided through SBHCs can improve contraceptive use although dropout rate and contraceptive failure remain high.
Both HIV prevalence and incidence are alarmingly high among female sex workers in Bombay. Successful interventions can be developed for these women, and even a partial increase in condom use may decrease the transmission of HIV and sexually transmitted diseases. Intervention programs of longer duration that target madams and clients and make condoms easily available are urgently needed at multiple sites in red-light areas.
A home-based intervention founded on a mentorship model and targeted toward adolescent development, including negotiation skills, was effective in preventing rapid repeat births among low-income, black adolescent mothers. The effectiveness of the intervention could be seen after only 2 visits and increased over time. There were no second births among mothers who attended > or = 8 sessions. There was no evidence that risk behavior or contraceptive use was related to rapid second births. There was some evidence that rapid second births among adolescent mothers were regarded as desirable and as part of a move toward increasing autonomy and family formation, thereby undermining intervention programs that focus on risk avoidance. Findings suggest the merits of a mentoring program for low-income, black adolescent mothers, based on a relatively brief (6-8 sessions) curriculum targeted toward adolescent development and interpersonal negotiation skills.
Married women reported significant increases in consistent condom use in response to a brief intervention, especially if HIV-positive.
Overall, girls benefited more from the STEP intervention than boys. The literature documents strong gender disparities in HIV/AIDS knowledge, information sources, and consequences of sex for youth in India. However, more work is needed to define and document the reasons for the differences.
The intervention led to increased knowledge, which in turn led to avoidance of pregnancy. The proposed model was appropriate for the evaluation and consequently can be considered as an effective tool to use for development or refinement of existing programmes.
A new intervention, AIM was evaluated among African-American seventh graders. This program, by focusing students on positive future selves, effectively modified sexual risk without directly providing instruction on sexually explicit topics.
Although the assumptions used in cost-effectiveness estimates have many limitations, they do allow for a relative comparison of different interventions and help to inform policy decisions related to the allocation of HIV prevention resources. Structural interventions hold the greatest promise in reducing HIV transmission among low-prevalence populations.
The Safer Choices program was effective in reducing important risk behaviors for HIV, other STDs, and pregnancy and in enhancing most psychosocial determinants of such behavior.
The program was effective for boys, but not for girls.
Behavioral interventions provide an efficacious means of HIV/STD prevention for blacks and Hispanics who attend STD clinics.
Primary prevention strategies evaluated to date do not delay the initiation of sexual intercourse, improve use of birth control among young men and women, or reduce the number of pregnancies in young women.
This study demonstrates the efficacy of a relationship-based prevention program for couples at risk for HIV infection.
Results suggest a brief skills training intervention embedded in drug treatment programs can reduce sexual risk for HIV-infection after discharge.
Among Colombian sex workers, condom use declined substantially when women were instructed to use spermicides if they were unable to persuade their partner to use a condom. However, these same women usually used the study spermicide as an alternate prophylaxis.
Comparable pairs of study sites have been selected. STD prevalence is sufficiently high, and the variation between sites is acceptably low. The study is feasible as designed.
Baseline results confirm a high prevalence of trichomoniasis and bacterial STD at these Kenyan rural sites. Improved STD management is urgently needed there. Our ongoing female condom intervention trial is feasible as designed.
Female condom introduction did not enhance STI prevention at these sites. It is unclear which aspects of the intervention -- STI education, condom promotion, case management -- were associated with decreased STI prevalence from baseline to follow-up.
Women traditionally targeted for STI/HIV preventive interventions need more comprehensive reproductive health services. In particular, SWs could benefit from targeted family planning counseling and services.
It should be noted that the changes in practices made by the study group did not necessarily reduce their risk of HIV infection or transmission and were not related to the demonstrated knowledge and skills improvement. Of special significance to programme planners, educators and researchers, both the quantitative and qualitative data revealed problem areas with the intervention protocol related to cultural norms and the possible fragmentation of information based on the behavioral transmission categories.
Theoretically derived social-emotional programs that are culturally sensitive, developmentally appropriate, and offered in multiple grades can reduce multiple risk behaviors for inner-city African American boys in grades 5 through 8. The lack of effects for girls deserves further research.
The enhanced intervention was generally effective in the HIV+ study. In the at-risk study, however, intervention effects were minimal and short-lived. Factors related to the theory, intervention design, and sample characteristics help explain these differences.
Increasing community knowledge and awareness among low-price CSW, pimps, and clients regarding AIDS and STD using trained outreach workers is feasible and effective. In summary, this study has documented the effectiveness of a behavioral intervention for CSW and their clients.
These results provide preliminary evidence for the efficacy of a parenting program designed to teach sexual communication skills to prevent sexual risk in preadolescents. TRIAL REGISTRATION; clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: 
Providing advance EC to adolescents is not associated with more unprotected intercourse or less condom or hormonal contraception use. In the first month after enrollment, adolescents provided with advance EC were nearly twice as likely to use it and began EC sooner, when it is known to be more effective.
The intervention and boosters led to gender-specific improvements in knowledge, attitudes, and condom use. Result variations by gender underline the importance of gender issues in prevention interventions. Predictors of success were identified to inform future HIV education interventions.
The intervention significantly improved the proportion of boys and girls knowing the correct time limits for both types of emergency contraception. The intervention did not change the pupils' sexual activity or use of emergency contraception.
The substantial underreporting of STD incidence in this study suggests that reliance on self-reports of STD history may introduce misclassification bias, potentially leading to false conclusions regarding the efficacy of prevention interventions. This observation highlights the importance of using biologic indicators as outcome measures.
Gender sensitive cognitive-behavioral interventions can influence women to try the female condom. To increase long-term use, interventions may need to include self-insertion practice and involvement of male partners.
Despite significantly greater behavioral risk among depressed women at baseline, SAFE was equally successful in reducing reinfection and high-risk behavior among depressed and nondepressed participants.
Behavioral and psychological consequences of HIV counseling and testing for women at risk for HIV were limited. These results have implications for further prevention interventions.
This study suggests that brief single-session, one-on-one or group skill-building interventions may reduce HIV/STD risk behaviors and STD morbidity among inner-city African American women in primary care settings.
IPV was strongly associated with most of the identified HIV risk factors. Our findings provide further evidence of links between IPV and HIV among women and the importance of joint prevention.
Under most scenarios, the HIV prevention intervention was cost-effective.
Socially disadvantaged women can be assisted in reducing their risk of contracting HIV infection. Risk reduction behavior change interventions should be offered routinely in primary health care clinics serving low-income and high-risk patients.
Despite promising results in some trials, overall findings do not provide convincing evidence that peer-led education improves sexual outcomes among adolescents. Future trials should build on the successful trials conducted to date and should strive to fulfill existing quality criteria.
Safer Choices reduced one or more measures of sexual risk taking over 31 months among all groups of youth, and was especially effective with males, Hispanics, and youth who engaged in unprotected sex and thus were at higher risk for HIV, other STD infections and pregnancy.
Despite substantial ethnic differences in attitudes/beliefs, behaviors, and infection rates, the intervention had a comparable impact on both Mexican American and African American.
Many women at risk for HIV infection are still not using condoms. Community-level interventions may be an effective way to reach large numbers of women and change their condom-use behaviors, particularly their behaviors with regard to communication with main sex partners.
The results suggest that participant baseline characteristics can be modifiers of intervention effectiveness.
Effects were not consistent across outcomes and comparisons. The field could benefit from thorough use of single theories and better reporting on intervention implementation.
Most of the best-evidence interventions are directly applicable for populations in greatest need of effective prevention programs; however, important gaps still exist.
The peer education approach can influence the behaviour of young people regarding their personal protection from HIV infection. In order to test its effectiveness, peer education should be further evaluated as a health education method in HIV prevention in high schools, other youth settings and community interventions, where the aim is behavioural change.
Less intensive community-based risk reduction services after clinical trial termination may support ongoing reductions in STIs and HIV among high-risk FSWs.
The data indicate the need for culturally sensitive AIDS prevention programs for women that deal with general issues of drug use and unprotected sex, and that include separate sessions for women of different ethnic backgrounds and acculturation levels to address specialized areas of concern.
To provide evidence of effectiveness, future interventions may need to be more intensive or focus on higher risk groups.
This brief behavioral intervention shows promise in reducing HIV and sexually transmitted illness risk behaviors among female sex workers and may be transferable to other resource-constrained settings.
Repeated counseling sessions may be needed to improve contraceptive decision-making and to reduce the risk of unintended pregnancy and STDs.
In addition to impacts on economic well being, women's empowerment and intimate partner violence, interventions addressing the economic and social vulnerability of women may contribute to reductions in HIV risk behavior.
Analysis of these programs suggest four overall factors that may impact program effectiveness including the extent to which programs focus on specific skills for reducing sexual risk behaviors; program duration and intensity; what constitutes the content of a total evaluated program including researchers' assumptions of participants' exposure to prior and concurrent programs; and what kind of training is available for facilitators.
Specialist contraceptive advice and enhanced provision had a short-lived effect on contraceptive uptake and increased the use of long-acting methods but did not appear to reduce repeat abortions.
Community-level interventions that involve and engage women in neighborhood-based HIV prevention activities can bring about reductions in high-risk sexual behaviors.
Brief theory-based HIV prevention counseling may significantly reduce HIV risk behaviors for STI clinic patients in South Africa.
Increases in self-efficacy significantly predicted increased condom use among FSWs, consistent with social cognitive theory. Increased HIV knowledge was also important among FSW-IDUs, but their changes in condom use were modest. Enhanced interventions for FSW-IDUs are needed, taking into account realities of substance use during sexual transactions that can compromise safer sex negotiation.
This follow-up shows that awareness of sexually transmitted diseases and condom use had increased between 1989 and 1994, possibly as a result of intensified information efforts.
Clinicians counseling women in the use of the female condom need to provide information, demonstrate its correct use with their clients, and provide an opportunity for their clients to practice skills themselves.
An innovative program directly involving sex workers as peer educators and enlisting the support of brothel owners and operators can result in improved condom use over time. Lessons learned from this program may be applicable elsewhere.
A woman-focused intervention can successfully reduce risk and facilitate employment and housing and may effectively reduce the frequency of unprotected sex in the longer term.
Given the substantial prevalence of gender-based violence among female adolescents and the associations observed between gender-based violence, HIV risk, and HIV infection, it is essential that HIV interventions involving young women address partner violence.
Focusing on both a woman and her main male sexual partner is efficacious in increasing female condom use and intention to use among heterosexual couples at risk for HIV and other STDs.
The understanding and use of FC can be greatly improved through active intervention-i.e. medical workers providing SWs with FC.
Replications of effective interventions face all of the challenges of implementation design, plus additional challenges of balancing fidelity to the original intervention and sensitivity to the needs of new populations.
This study classifies blinding methods and provides a detailed description of methods that could overcome some barriers of blinding in clinical trials assessing nonpharmacological treatment, and provides information for readers assessing the quality of results of such trials.
Male circumcision is associated with a reduced risk of penile HPV infection and, in the case of men with a history of multiple sexual partners, a reduced risk of cervical cancer in their current female partners.
Socioeconomic patterns in incidence varied for specific cancers, while such patterns for stage were generally consistent across cancers, with late-stage diagnoses being associated with lower SES. These findings illustrate the potential for analyzing disparities in cancer outcomes according to a variety of individual-level socioeconomic, demographic, and health care characteristics, as well as by area measures available in the linked database.
Quadrivalent HPV vaccine provided sustained protection against low grade lesions attributable to vaccine HPV types (6, 11, 16, and 18) and a substantial reduction in the burden of these diseases through 42 months of follow-up.
HPV is common among females in the United States. Our data indicate that the burden of prevalent HPV infection among females was greater than previous estimates and was highest among those aged 20 to 24 years. However, the prevalence of HPV vaccine types was relatively low.
In young women who had not been previously infected with HPV-16 or HPV-18, those in the vaccine group had a significantly lower occurrence of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia related to HPV-16 or HPV-18 than did those in the placebo group. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Available data are too inconsistent to provide precise estimates. However, they suggest that while condoms may not prevent HPV infection, they may protect against genital warts, CIN II or III, and ICC.
This is the first population-based seroprevalence study in the United States of all 4 HPV types targeted by the quadrivalent vaccine, and its findings can inform vaccine policy.
The increasing rate of invasive cervical cancer among African-American women aged >40 years in Florida, coupled with their diagnosis at a later stage of cancer, is of great concern. Most screening organizations recommend stopping screening at age 65 years. The observations from these analyses highlighted the need to focus prevention and screening efforts on African-American women living in Florida, and particularly on women of postreproductive age.
In a low-resource setting, a single round of HPV testing was associated with a significant reduction in the numbers of advanced cervical cancers and deaths from cervical cancer.
Compared with conventional sex education this specially designed intervention did not reduce sexual risk taking in adolescents.
Among newly sexually active women, consistent condom use by their partners appears to reduce the risk of cervical and vulvovaginal HPV infection.
Prostate cancer detection was significantly lower in subjects randomized to dutasteride compared with the placebo group. These results have prompted the initiation of the Reduction by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events (REDUCE) study, which was designed and powered to test the hypothesis that treatment with dutasteride decreases the incidence and progression of prostate cancer.
Dutasteride is a potent inhibitor of dihydrotestosterone production that is safe and effective in terms of the reduction of prostate volume and symptoms, flow rate improvement, and the reduction of the risk of acute urinary retention and surgery during a 24-month study period.
Hematuria secondary to prostatic bleeding may be significant if not treated. Finasteride appears to be effective for suppressing hematuria caused by benign prostatic hyperplasia and should be considered as treatment.
Long-term combination therapy with doxazosin and finasteride was safe and reduced the risk of overall clinical progression of benign prostatic hyperplasia significantly more than did treatment with either drug alone. Combination therapy and finasteride alone reduced the long-term risk of acute urinary retention and the need for invasive therapy.
Finasteride prevents or delays the appearance of prostate cancer, but this possible benefit and a reduced risk of urinary problems must be weighed against sexual side effects and the increased risk of high-grade prostate cancer.
In men treated with finasteride, multiplying PSA by 2 and using normal ranges for untreated men preserves the usefulness of PSA for prostate cancer detection.
Doxazosin was effective in improving urinary symptoms and urinary flow rate in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia, and was more effective than finasteride alone or placebo. The addition of finasteride did not provide further benefit to that achieved with doxazosin alone.
In men with benign prostatic hyperplasia, terazosin was effective therapy, whereas finasteride was not, and the combination of terazosin and finasteride was no more effective than terazosin alone.
The study will examine the effects of the dual 5alpha-reductase inhibitor dutasteride on the natural history of prostate cancer in men at increased risk for this malignancy. It affords a unique opportunity to examine biomarkers and genetic linkage for prostate cancer, and assess a range of prostate health outcome measures.
By decreasing the contribution to prostate specific antigen from benign prostatic hyperplasia finasteride makes changes in prostate specific antigen more cancer specific. This effect may explain the increased detection of high grade prostate cancer in men randomized to finasteride in the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial. How to best use prostate specific antigen to recommend biopsy in men on 5alpha-reductase inhibitors requires further study.
Effects of finasteride on prostate volume and selective inhibition of low-grade cancer, rather than effects on tumor morphology, may have contributed to the increase in high-grade cancers with finasteride in the PCPT. Although induction of high-grade cancer cannot be excluded, the results suggest that high-grade cancer was detected earlier and was less extensive in the finasteride group than in the placebo group.
PSA had statistically significantly better sensitivity and AUC for detecting prostate cancer in the finasteride arm of the PCPT than in the placebo arm. This bias would be expected to contribute to greater detection of all grades of prostate cancer with finasteride.
Finasteride significantly improves prostate cancer detection with digital rectal examination.
The AFSMI was effective in reducing emotional distress and enhancing physical functioning.
We were unable to develop functioning groups within the RCT. Partial explanations for the latter finding include the structural limitations of the RCT: the groups were small, difficult to schedule and patients indicated that they would have preferred to choose whether or not to participate in a group. The positive changes in women with breast cancer who received Nucare persisted at 12 months.
Interventions to promote self-efficacy may increase quality of life and decrease distress for women diagnosed with breast cancer.
Patients with testicular cancer seem to have considerable coping abilities. Those who declined to participate in the trial differed from those who participated. Those who agreed to participate may comprise the clinical group who perceive a need for psychological support. No evidence was found to indicate a need for routinely offering adjuvant psychological therapy.
Most patients reported being comfortable with the telephone therapy and said that they felt better as a result of it. However, the outcome data showed that telephone therapy--as carried out in this study--produced only modest benefits. Researchers need to consider who is best for delivering such therapy.
Despite the lack of a significant difference between the experimental and treatment groups in this small sample of men, analysis of trends and interview feedback indicated that telephone social support, in addition to education through a mailed resource kit, has the potential to be beneficial by increasing access to supportive services.
The four-session CBI significantly reduced distress and improved HRQOL for a period of 2 months in patients with melanoma who had medium-to-high distress, with improved general health evident 6 months after the intervention. Some variation in results was revealed in an intent-to-treat analysis. The initial evidence from the current study showed that a brief intervention may be effective for creating change in individuals with cancer who have increased distress, although further research is needed to identify the most optimal approach for delivering the intervention.
This new profession seems to need role descriptions and formal education so that psychosocial nurses receive respect and appreciation in their new and relatively unknown work in cancer care. RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICES: The adjustment to the cancer disease and treatment side effects can be difficult for the patients and their families, which has highlighted the need for psychosocial support. To meet this need the health care system has to provide such support. Nurses are available and can be successfully educated to handle psychosocial problems among cancer patients. A new profession among nurses is emerging, which the present study aimed at describing. The present findings have potential to make healthcare professionals grasp what the core of psychosocial cancer nursing is, as well as its potential and pitfalls.
Health-related support groups are used by nearly 1 in 4 cancer survivors, but levels of utilization differ across subgroups. An understanding of how cancer survivors use support groups highlights shortcomings in psychosocial care and suggests that additional efforts to overcome barriers to care are needed.
People with moderate or severe depressive episodes have subtle and divergent views about this condition, its outcome, and appropriate help. Such beliefs should be considered in primary care as they may significantly impact on help seeking and adherence to treatment.
Severe sepsis is a common, expensive, and frequently fatal condition, with as many deaths annually as those from acute myocardial infarction. It is especially common in the elderly and is likely to increase substantially as the U.S. population ages.
The results suggest a strong benefit of probiotic administration on antibiotic-associated diarrhoea, but further data are needed. The evidence for beneficial effects is still not definitive. Published studies are flawed by the lack of a placebo design and by peculiar population features.
The existing literature may overstate the costs of healthcare-acquired infection because of bias, and the existing estimates of excess costs may not make intuitive sense to clinicians and policy makers. Accurate estimates of the costs of healthcare-acquired infection should be made and used in appropriately designed decision-analytic economic models (ie, cost-effectiveness models) that will make valid and believable predictions of the economic value of increased infection control.
The incidence of sepsis and the number of sepsis-related deaths are increasing, although the overall mortality rate among patients with sepsis is declining. There are also disparities among races and between men and women in the incidence of sepsis. Gram-positive bacteria and fungal organisms are increasingly common causes of sepsis.
The incidences of sepsis and septic shock exceed those of pulmonary embolism and myocardial infarction. The risk factors for mortality include age older than 60 years, the need for emergency surgery, and the presence of any comorbidity. This study emphasizes the need for early recognition of patients at risk via aggressive screening and the rapid implementation of evidence-based guidelines.
There is evidence of a clinically significant benefit of probiotics in the treatment of acute infectious diarrhea in infants and children, particularly in rotaviral gastroenteritis. Lactobacillus GG showed the most consistent effect, although other probiotic strains may also be effective. Further research is needed. Clinical and statistical heterogeneity of the prophylactic interventions preclude drawing firm conclusions about the efficacy of probiotics in preventing acute gastroenteritis.
A meta-analysis of data from five randomized-controlled trials showed that S. boulardii is moderately effective in preventing antibiotic-associated diarrhoea in children and adults treated with antibiotics for any reason (mainly respiratory tract infections). For every 10 patients receiving daily S. boulardii with antibiotics, one fewer will develop antibiotic-associated diarrhoea.
Probiotics reduce the risk of AAD in children. For every 7 patients that would develop diarrhea while being treated with antibiotics, one fewer will develop AAD if also receiving probiotics.
The development of postoperative sepsis is multifactorial and procedures, most likely to develop sepsis, did not demonstrate the greatest mortality after sepsis developed. Factors associated with the development of sepsis included race, age, hospital size, hospital location, and patient income. Further evaluation of high-risk procedures, populations, and environments may assist in reducing this costly complication.
HemeSelect and a combination test in which HemeSelect is used to confirm positive Hemoccult II Sensa results improve on Hemoccult II in screening patients for colorectal carcinoma.
Sensitivity and specificity may vary in different clinical populations, and prevalence is a marker for such differences. Clinicians are advised to base their decisions on studies that most closely match their own clinical situation, using prevalence to guide the detection of differences in study population or study design.
Quantitative immunochemical FOBT has good sensitivity and specificity for detection of clinically significant neoplasia. Test performance in screening average-risk populations is not known.
The use of aspirin/NSAIDS and anticoagulants was associated with a trend for increased sensitivity with no change in specificity for the detection of AAP/CRC. This study suggests that there is no need to stop these agents before I-FOBT testing.
Rehydrated Hemoccult yielded a higher positivity rate and lower positive predictive value than either Hemoccult SENSA or nonhydrated Hemoccult. Hemoccult SENSA approached the positive predictive value of nonhydrated Hemoccult. Adequacy of follow-up of patients testing positive for fecal occult blood needs improvement.
Annual fecal occult-blood testing with rehydration of the samples decreased the 13-year cumulative mortality from colorectal cancer by 33 percent.
Adherence to recommendations for complete diagnostic evaluation after a positive FOBT has greatly improved over time in an integrated group medical practice. Through the use of tracking systems and screening guidelines, it may be possible to reach levels of follow-up that are comparable to those observed in randomized trials.
The instrument provided reproducible results and refrigerated I-FOBT samples were stable 21 days. An I-FOBT level can be chosen to provide optimal sensitivity and specificity for significant neoplasia.
Multifaceted QI activities improved rates of timely colonoscopy referral and performance in an electronic medical record system. However, colonoscopy was not indicated in over one third of patients with positive FOBTs, raising concerns about current screening practices and the appropriate denominator used for performance measurement standards related to colon cancer screening.
Further research is required to explain why smaller studies tended to report greater test accuracy in a large proportion of meta-analyses of diagnostic tests. In systematic reviews of diagnostic studies, literature search should be sufficiently comprehensive and possible impact of publication bias should be assessed.
Colonoscopy rarely misses polyps > or =10 mm, but the miss rate increases significantly in smaller sized polyps. The available evidence is based on a small number of studies with heterogeneous study designs and inclusion criteria.
At present, there is no extensively studied FOBT that fulfills the needs for all target populations worldwide. Choice of FOBT should take into account population dietary compliance and colonoscopy resources: The more sensitive newer tests should be used if dietary compliance is good (in the case of guaiac tests) and colonoscopy resources are adequate for diagnostic workup of people who test positive. Immunochemical tests remove the difficulties created by diet and drug restrictions and are more amenable to standardized development and quality control.
Sorafenib shows clinical benefit without adversely impacting overall QOL and has a positive impact on some individual symptoms and concerns. These findings are consistent with other clinical results from this trial of advanced renal cell carcinoma patients treated with sorafenib, which included significantly greater progression-free survival and low risk for treatment limited toxicities.
There was little evidence of clinical activity for ABT-510, and further evaluation as a single agent for treating advanced renal cell carcinoma is not warranted. The evidence of a favorable safety profile may justify further evaluation in combination therapy.
We identified 4 risk groups to predict survival in previously treated patients with renal cell carcinoma. This model was based on data from what is to our knowledge the largest experience in this population. It should be used in clinical trial design, risk stratification and patient counseling.
Among patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma receiving sorafenib treatment, outcomes of older (>or=70 years) and younger (<70 years) patients were similar.
As compared with placebo, treatment with sorafenib prolongs progression-free survival in patients with advanced clear-cell renal-cell carcinoma in whom previous therapy has failed; however, treatment is associated with increased toxic effects. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
As compared with interferon alfa, temsirolimus improved overall survival among patients with metastatic renal-cell carcinoma and a poor prognosis. The addition of temsirolimus to interferon did not improve survival. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Progression-free survival was longer and response rates were higher in patients with metastatic renal-cell cancer who received sunitinib than in those receiving interferon alfa (ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, 
The addition of low-dose IFN to sorafenib resulted in efficacy outcomes that were comparable to those achieved with sorafenib monotherapy. The current results indicated that pAKT levels may predict for clinical outcome, but further mechanistic study is required.
For cytotoxic agents, although overall objective response rates reliably predict subsequent marketing approval, isolated responses in melanoma and renal cell carcinoma are not predictive.
Results from MEM showed the sunitinib's benefit on HRQoL compared with IFN-alpha.
The results of this meta-analysis indicate that increased exposure to sunitinib is associated with improved clinical outcomes (longer TTP, longer OS, greater chance of antitumor response), as well as some increased risk of adverse effects. A sunitinib 50-mg starting dose seems reasonable, providing clinical benefit with acceptably low risk of adverse events.
This scoring algorithm can be used to predict cancer specific survival for patients with metastatic clear cell RCC.
The risk-group distribution for metastatic RCC patients in clinical trials shifted from 1975 to 2007. These shifts have direct implications for data analysis, interpretation of metastatic RCC trends, and drug development.
Treatment with bevacizumab plus IFN and sunitinib has clinically relevant and statistically significant advantages over treatment with IFN alone in patients with metastatic RCC. In people with three of six risk factors for poor prognosis, temsirolimus had clinically relevant advantages over treatment with IFN, and sorafenib tosylate was superior to best supportive care as second-line therapy. The frequency of adverse events associated with bevacizumab plus IFN, sunitinib and temsirolimus was comparable with that seen with IFN, although the adverse event profile is different. Treatment with sorafenib was associated with a significantly increased frequency of hypertension and hand-foot syndrome. Estimates from the PenTAG model suggested that none of the interventions would be considered cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 30,000 pounds per QALY.
This study reports one of the highest proportions of conventional renal cell carcinoma with VHL changes, and suggests possible relationships between VHL status and clinical variables. The data suggest that VHL defects may define conventional renal cell carcinomas but the clinical significance of specific VHL alterations will only be clarified by the determination of their biological effect at the protein level rather than through genetic or epigenetic analysis alone. (Clin Cancer Res 2009;15(24):7582-92).
Patients with early esophageal cancer managed with endoscopic therapy have equivalent long-term survival compared to those treated with surgical resection. These are the first population-based data that support the effectiveness of endoscopic therapy for managing these patients.
The combination of EMR/PDT seems to be a viable and less morbid alternative to standard esophagectomy in patients presenting with early Barrett's esophageal adenocarcinoma. A prospective randomized, controlled trial of EMR/PDT compared with esophagectomy for managing early adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus may be warranted.
Overall mortality and long-term survival in patients with HGD treated with PDT appears to be comparable to that of patients treated with esophagectomy.
Surgical resection of esophageal HGD can be performed with low mortality and allows long-term survival. A significant percentage with an initial diagnosis of HGD will have invasive disease at resection. Surgery is the optimal treatment for HGD unless contraindicated by severe comorbidities.
Both endotherapy and esophagectomy can effectively treat high-grade dysplasia and intramucosal carcinoma associated with Barrett's esophagus. Endotherapy is associated with a higher risk of tumor progression, although this is uncommon. Esophagectomy incurs higher initial costs and results in more frequent minor complications but is usually curative.
Management of high-grade dysplasia was not uniform. Unsuspected cancer was common in high-grade dysplasia patients undergoing surgery but 13% regressed under surveillance. High-grade dysplasia patients have a high mortality but 43% did not die from cancer.
Patient age and cancer stage predict treatment modality for Barrett's esophagus with neoplasia. Treatment choice is influenced further by whether the initial evaluation is performed by a gastroenterologist or a surgeon.
Argon beam ablation for high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus is an effective and safe treatment, especially in patients unfit for surgical resection.
Vagal-sparing esophagectomy preserves gastric secretory, motor, and reservoir function. Postoperatively, patients have normal alimentation, bowel regulation, and no weight loss. It is an ideal procedure for patients with end-stage benign disease, Barrett's esophagus with high-grade dysplasia, or esophageal carcinoma limited to the lamina propria.
In the absence of other information about the quality of surgery at the hospitals near them, Medicare patients undergoing selected cardiovascular or cancer procedures can significantly reduce their risk of operative death by selecting a high-volume hospital.
No difference was observed in squamous overgrowth between patients given PHOPDT plus omeprazole compared with only omeprazole. Squamous overgrowth did not obscure the most advanced neoplasia in any patient. Treatment of HGD with PHOPDT in patients with BE does not present a long-term risk of failure to detect subsquamous dysplasia or carcinoma.
In the United States, these dietary factors may contribute in part to the much higher incidence of squamous cell esophageal cancer among black compared to white men.
Patients with focal HGD are less likely to have cancer during the first year after diagnosis or on subsequent follow-up compared with diffuse HGD.
Oesophagogastric cancers in this population predominantly involve the OGJ, lower oesophagus, and/or cardia.
Individuals with Barrett's oesophagus, oesophageal adenocarcinoma, or oesophagogastric junctional adenocarcinoma are more likely to have a positive family history of Barrett's oesophagus, oesophageal adenocarcinoma, or oesophagogastric junctional adenocarcinoma than individuals without Barrett's oesophagus, oesophageal adenocarcinoma, or oesophagogastric junctional adenocarcinoma. A positive family history should be considered when making decisions about screening endoscopy in patients with symptoms of gastro-oesophageal reflux.
Cigarette smoking is already a major cause of death in China, and among middle-aged Shanghai men, about 20% of all deaths during the 1980s were due to smoking. The excess was greatest among men who began smoking before the age of 25 years, about 47% of whom would, at 1987 mortality rates, die between the ages of 35 and 69 years (compared with only 29% of nonsmokers). These estimates reflect the consequences of past smoking patterns. The future health effects of current smoking patterns are likely to be greater because of the recent large increase in cigarette consumption, particularly at younger ages, in China.
In male patients with BE and HGD, PDT and ESO are cost-effective alternatives to SURV.
Waist circumference, but not BMI, had some modest independent associations with the risk of Barrett's esophagus. The findings provide partial support for the hypothesis that abdominal obesity contributes to GERD, which may in turn increase the risk of Barrett's esophagus.
These observations indicate the importance of identifying the mechanisms underlying obesity's role in BE and esophageal adenocarcinoma, and suggest that weight loss might be a fruitful approach to the prevention of these diseases.
Endoscopic resection is associated with favorable outcomes for low-risk patients with early esophageal adenocarcinoma (Barrett's carcinoma).
Circumferential EMR is a noninvasive treatment of Barrett's esophagus with HGIN or mucosal cancer, with a low complication rate and good short-term clinical efficacy. Further studies should focus on long-term results and on technical improvements.
Stepwise circumferential and focal ablation appears to be a safe and effective treatment for complete removal of Barrett's esophagus containing HGD, and can be safely performed after prior endoscopic resection for endoscopically visible abnormalities.
Stepwise circumferential and focal ablation for Barrett's esophagus with flat HGD or for Barrett's with residual dysplasia after endoscopic resection for HGD/IMC is a safe and effective treatment modality. Its success rate and safety profile compare favorably with alternatives such as esophagectomy, widespread endoscopic resection or photodynamic therapy.
Transhiatal esophagectomy was associated with lower morbidity than transthoracic esophagectomy with extended en bloc lymphadenectomy. Although median overall, disease-free, and quality-adjusted survival did not differ statistically between the groups, there was a trend toward improved long-term survival at five years with the extended transthoracic approach.
These results suggest that a high intake of preserved foods and overheated drinks might increase the risk of esophageal cancer, and intake of fruit, vegetables, and tea might be negatively associated with risk of esophageal cancer. The results also suggest that diet is an important factor in the development of esophageal cancer in Taiwan.
Endoscopic ablation could be the preferred strategy for managing patients with BE with HGD. Ablation might also be preferred in subjects with LGD or no dysplasia, but the cost effectiveness depends on the long-term effectiveness of ablation and whether surveillance endoscopy can be discontinued after successful ablation. As further postablation data become available, the optimal management strategy will be clarified.
PDT may represent a reasonable alternate to esophagectomy for high-risk patients with HGD or superficial esophageal cancer. Due to superior survival and local control, we still favor esophagectomy for patients without physiologic impairment. However, PDT appears to potentially cure approximately one-third of superficial esophageal cancers and provide local control of high-grade dysplasia in a similar subset of patients.
Patients who have glandular mucosa on biopsy without intestinal metaplasia have a similar cancer risk to those with specialized intestinal metaplasia.
By using strict pathologic definitions of invasive disease, the present study indicates the true prevalence of IEAC in BE and HGD may have been overestimated significantly. Separating IMC from IEAC is clinically relevant because endoscopic techniques potentially may treat IMC.
There is a strong and probably causal relation between gastroesophageal reflux and esophageal adenocarcinoma. The relation between reflux and adenocarcinoma of the gastric cardia is relatively weak.
These good acute-phase and intermediate results, along with low morbidity rates and no mortality, suggest that the organ-preserving local endoscopic procedure including EMR and PDT is an attractive alternative to oesophageal resection. Therefore, endoscopic therapy might replace radical oesophageal resection in future in cases of intraepithelial high-grade neoplasia and early mucosal adenocarcinoma in Barrett's oesophagus.
Patients with Barrett's oesophagus die more commonly of bronchopneumonia and ischaemic heart disease compared with oesophageal adenocarcinoma, and overall mortality in this group may be increased.
This 5-year randomized trial of BE patients with HGD demonstrates that PHOPDT is a clinically and statistically effective therapy in producing long-term ablation of HGD and reducing the potential impact of cancer compared with OM.
This study showed that endoscopic therapy was highly effective and safe, with an excellent long-term survival rate. The risk factors identified may help stratify patients who are at risk for recurrence and those requiring more intensified follow-up.
Stepwise radical ER is effective for selected patients with early neoplasia in BE; provides optimal histopathological diagnosis; and may reduce recurrence rate, since all mucosa at risk is effectively removed. Use of APC should be limited to prevent buried Barrett's mucosa. Methods for prevention of stenosis should be developed.
ER is a valuable diagnostic tool that frequently leads to a change in treatment policy. Most endoscopically resected early Barrett's neoplasia are 0-II type, G1 mucosal neoplasia. Submucosal infiltration is more often encountered in type 0-I and 0-IIc lesions and in G2-G3 cancers.
A systematic baseline endoscopic biopsy protocol using histology and flow cytometry identifies subsets of patients with Barrett's esophagus at low and high risk for progression to cancer. Patients whose baseline biopsies are negative, indefinite, or low-grade displasia without increased 4N or aneuploidy may have surveillance deferred for up to 5 yr. Patients with cytometric abnormalities merit more frequent surveillance, and management of high-grade dysplasia can be individualized.
The risk of Barrett's esophagus in any one symptomatic relative of a patient with Barrett's esophagus was not statistically higher than in other persons with reflux symptoms. However, more relatives of Barrett's esophagus patients have reflux symptoms, so the overall prevalence of Barrett's esophagus and reflux esophagitis in relatives may also be greater than in the general population. In considering whether to screen patients with reflux symptoms for Barrett's esophagus, age and duration of symptoms are stronger predictors than having a relative with Barrett's esophagus.
BE was found in 1.6% of the general Swedish population. Alcohol and smoking were significant risk factors.
A strategy of endoscopic ablation provided the longest quality adjusted life expectancy for BO with HGD. Although endoscopic surveillance was less expensive than endoscopic ablation, it was associated with shorter survival. Optimal utilisation of healthcare resources may be achieved with endoscopic ablative therapy for BO with HGD.
In patients with dysplastic Barrett's esophagus, radiofrequency ablation was associated with a high rate of complete eradication of both dysplasia and intestinal metaplasia and a reduced risk of disease progression. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Preliminary results from this trial define the prevalence and incidence of dysplasia and cancer in a multicenter cohort of patients with BE. At least half the patients who developed HGD and/or cancer had 2 consecutive initial endoscopies with biopsies revealing nondysplastic mucosa. The majority of patients with LGD regressed and had a cancer incidence similar to all BE patients.
Circumferential ablation of nondysplastic BE by using this balloon-based ablation device can be performed with no subsequent strictures or buried glands and with complete elimination of BE in 70% of patients at 1-year follow-up.
Stepwise circumferential and focal ablation of BE containing dysplasia appears to be a safe and effective intervention, achieving a CR for dysplasia in 95% and 79% of LGD and HGD patients, respectively.
A high degree of interobserver variability is seen in the histological diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus-related LGD. Although the number of observations is low, a consensus diagnosis of LGD among GI pathologists suggests an increased risk of progression from LGD to HGD or carcinoma.
In this middle-aged and elderly population, moderate alcohol consumption slightly reduced overall mortality. The benefit depended in part on age and background cardiovascular risk and was far smaller than the large increase in risk produced by tobacco.
(1) Patients with complicated Barrett's esophagus reflux significantly greater amounts of both acid and duodenal contents than patients with uncomplicated Barrett's esophagus. (2) Complications in Barrett's esophagus may be due to synergism between acid and bile rather than either constituent alone.
Photodynamic therapy followed by endoscopic surveillance for residual high-grade dysplasia appears to be cost effective compared with esophagectomy for patients diagnosed with high-grade dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus. Clinical trials directly comparing these strategies are warranted.
In this series of predominantly transthoracic esophagectomies, there has been a decline in the hospital death rate to less than 5%. These results are largely attributable to factors aimed at reducing postoperative pulmonary complications.
Thus, second-line treatment with irinotecan/LV5FU2, oxaliplatin/LV5FU2 or irinotecan/oxaliplatin, provides good tumour growth control and survival coupled with an acceptable safety profile.
Weekly treatment with irinotecan plus fluorouracil and leucovorin is superior to a widely used regimen of fluorouracil and leucovorin for metastatic colorectal cancer in terms of progression-free survival and overall survival.
The findings indicate favourable changes in BP and obesity indices after the implementation of a 1-year school-based intervention program based on the TPB. These results highlight the importance of developing a social and physical environment that promotes balanced eating behaviours and extra-curricular access to physical activity venues.
An integrated program of exercise and heart health-related lectures and discussions had a beneficial effect on health knowledge, health behaviors, and onset of risk factors for coronary artery disease among urban girls.
To our knowledge, this study provides the first evidence from a randomized controlled trial that manipulation of self-efficacy results in increased physical activity among black and white adolescent girls. The results encourage the use of self-efficacy as a targeted, mediator variable in interventions designed to increase physical activity among girls.
A comprehensive school-based intervention can increase regular participation in vigorous physical activity among high-school girls.
High fitness levels modified the impact that BMI had on the metabolic syndrome score in children. Increasing a child's fitness level could be one method for reducing the risk of obesity-related comorbidities.
The results from the PAAC intervention may provide schools with an alternative method to increase PA levels in children and reduce childhood obesity.
The results indicate that aerobic fitness attenuates the difference in insulin sensitivity within BMI categories, thus emphasizing the role of fitness even among overweight and obese children.
Aerobic exercise physical education is a feasible and effective health promotion strategy for high-risk adolescent girls.
The physical activity intervention, implemented by the school staff, resulted in enhanced physical activity behaviors in both middle school boys and girls. The combination of environmental approaches with computer-tailored interventions seemed promising.
It is feasible to transfer this US school-based intervention to UK schools, and it may be effective in reducing the time children spend on screen-based activities. The study has provided information for a full-scale trial, which would require 50 schools ( approximately 1250 pupils) to detect effects on screen viewing and body mass index over 2 years of follow-up.
The translation of the national CATCH program to low-income schools with Hispanic students successfully slowed the epidemic increase in risk of overweight or overweight seen in control school children. An emphasis should be placed on community organizing and evaluation feedback when implementing evidence-based school health programs in low-income Hispanic communities.
Results from this study suggest that changes in the school environment to support healthful behaviors can be maintained over time. Staff training is an important factor in achieving institutionalization of these programs.
The intervention improved PE of both specialists' and classroom teachers' lessons. States and districts should ensure that the most qualified staff teaches PE. Interventions need to be tailored to meet local needs and conditions, including teacher type and location of lessons.
This study verified the feasibility, acceptability and potential efficacy of a multifaceted school-based intervention to prevent unhealthy weight gain among adolescent boys.
The positive effect of the AS! BC model on boys' PA is important in light of the current global trend of decreased PA.
Reducing television, videotape, and video game use may be a promising, population-based approach to prevent childhood obesity.
This investigation indicates that a program of fitness activities conducted within the classroom can significantly improve levels of fitness in urban elementary schoolchildren.
These results document the feasibility of implementing a multicomponent program for obesity prevention in elementary schools serving American Indian communities. The program produced significant positive changes in fat intake and in food- and health-related knowledge and behaviors. More intense or longer interventions may be needed to significantly reduce adiposity in this population.
The Pathways study results provide evidence demonstrating the role schools can play in public health promotion. Its study design and QC systems and procedures provide useful models for other similar school based multi- or single-site studies.
Subjects who attended > or = 40% of the intervention achieved a significant reduction in %BF at a relatively low cost. School-based obesity prevention programs of this type are likely to be a cost-effective use of public funds and warrant careful consideration by policy makers and program planners.
Substantial variation in the conduct of PE exists. Proportion of lesson time girls spent accruing MVPA (i.e., 37.9%) fell short of the Healthy People 2010 objective of 50%. Numerous possibilities exist for improving girls' PA in PE.
Schools have policies and practices that support physical activity, although unfavorable practices exist. Schools must work with community partners and officials to provide environments that optimally support physical activity, especially schools that serve low-income students.
Substantially increasing preschoolers' outdoor free play time did not increase their physical activity levels.
Many US children watch a great deal of television and are inadequately vigorously active. Vigorous activity levels are lowest among girls, non-Hispanic blacks, and Mexican Americans. Intervention strategies to promote lifelong physical activity among US children are needed to stem the adverse health consequences of inactivity.
Without any dietary intervention, children who regularly participate in at least 3 h per week of sports activities are more protected against total and regional fat mass accumulation. They also increase their total lean and bone mass to a greater extent than children who do not participate in extracurricular sport activities. In addition, PA children maintain their physical fitness during growth, while it deteriorates in the non-PA children.
Among girls, higher amounts of physical education may be associated with an academic benefit. Physical education did not appear to negatively affect academic achievement in elementary school students. Concerns about adverse effects on achievement may not be legitimate reasons to limit physical education programs.
Children enrolled in fitness-oriented gym classes showed greater loss of body fat, increase in cardiovascular fitness, and improvement in fasting insulin levels than control subjects. The modification to the school physical education curriculum demonstrates that small but consistent changes in the amount of physical activity has beneficial effects on body composition, fitness, and insulin levels in children. Partnering with school districts should be a part of a public health approach to improving the health of overweight children.
Risks for insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, as measured by fasting insulin (an indirect measurement of insulin sensitivity in obese children), can be decreased by supervised nutrition and exercise intervention. Furthermore, hyperinsulinemia in overweight children can be reduced without decreasing body fat.
The intervention delayed menarche in this group of girls. The delay was produced by increased physical activity, reduced television viewing and changes in BMI and fat distribution. These findings may have implications for the primary prevention of breast cancer.
Among overweight children, the PI was associated with increased parental awareness of their child's weight status. Although parents wanted PI for their children, more research is needed to test this approach on children's self-esteem and plans for weight control.
(1) The most successful treatment of pre-adolescent obesity may be in preschool children with frequent visits. (2) A randomized trial is warranted to test this possibility. (3) Many of the techniques used to treat early obesity can be adapted for prevention and intervention in early obesity during the preschool years, and this is the preferred approach.
A comprehensive health care-based lifestyle intervention can effectively improve dietary intake and increase bone mineral gains in adolescent girls. To our knowledge, this study is the first to significantly improve bone mass in adolescent girls in a non-school-based intervention. Trial Registration ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
This study is the first to show that a preschool-based intervention can lead to reductions in young children's television/video viewing. Further research is needed to determine the long-term effects associated with reductions in young children's television viewing.
Increases in enjoyment partially mediated the positive effect of the LEAP intervention. To our knowledge, we have provided the first experimental evidence from a randomized controlled trial linking increased enjoyment with increased physical activity among black and white adolescent girls.
These results suggest that family environment is associated with overweight in youth and that sport and exercise program participants are less like to be overweight and that, for females, increased television watching is related to overweight.
The majority of children in this study were dissatisfied with their bodies and girls were more dissatisfied than boys. The main novel finding of this study was that the association between body dissatisfaction and body fatness differed across ethnic groups, with this association being greatest in Asian children (Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi in origin) in comparison to black and white children.
The accumulated amount of time spent at moderate and vigorous PA is related to body fatness in children, but this relation is weak; the explained variance was <1%.
Exercise training programs for female adolescents can be successfully integrated into a high school summer curriculum. Quantifiable, substantial structural and functional responses occur with relatively short periods of training. Approximately 60% of the training response was related to factors independent of muscle size per se. These data may serve to better design physical activity programs for female adolescents.
Hip-Hop to Health Jr. was effective in reducing subsequent increases in BMI in preschool children. This represents a promising approach to prevention of overweight among minority children in the preschool years.
There is a positive relationship between TV viewing and fatness. Increased TV viewing does not reflect reduced 24-hour energy expenditure as assessed by 24-hour HR monitoring, submaximal VO2, muscle strength or poor dietary intake. Increased TV consumption is associated with a low SES.
In obese children, leptin concentration decreased during 4 mo of physical training and increased during a subsequent 4-mo period without physical training, fat mass was highly correlated with baseline leptin, and greater reductions in leptin during 4 mo of physical training were seen in children with higher pretraining leptin and in those whose total mass increased least.
The cardiovascular fitness of obese adolescents was significantly improved by physical training, especially high-intensity physical training. The physical training also reduced both visceral and total-body adiposity, but there was no clear effect of the intensity of physical training.
A 1-h computer-tailored intervention offered during class-time has the potential to increase school related physical activity.
Physical training lowers blood pressure and improves physical fitness in children and might have implications for an important non-pharmacological approach to primary prevention of essential hypertension.
Mean BP in 6-7-year-old Danish children has decreased since 1979 and BMI has increased modestly since 1986/1987. The lipid profile was similar compared with data from 1973 and 1978 in Danish children. Weak relationships were found between CVD risk factors, fitness and fatness.
Among girls, the transition between early and mid-adolescence was accompanied by a significant increase in leisure-time sedentary behavior. Interventions to reduce sedentariness among adolescent girls are best to focus on weekend behaviors. Studies seeking to examine the association between inactivity and the development of chronic health problems need to examine a diverse range of activities that comprehensively measure sedentariness. This information will provide a better understanding of inactivity patterns among adolescent girls.
Both brief interventions can improve the CVD risk profile of children with multiple risk factors. The classroom-based approach was easier to implement and used fewer resources. This population approach should be considered as one means of early primary prevention of CVD.
A school-based intervention targeting sedentary adolescent females can increase physical activity and prevent a decline in cardiovascular fitness. Moreover, the effect of the intervention generalized to lifestyle activity.
Our study showed that an intervention programme could be feasible in schools in Beijing, China. The prevalence of overweight and obesity was reduced in schoolchildren in Beijing through an intervention focused on nutrition education and physical activity. Overweight and obesity children as well as normal weight children and their parents should be involved in such an intervention programme.
This intervention showed a robust effect on physical fitness in both genders and decreased adiposity only in boys.
The national PE curriculum for Greek secondary schools does not achieve the required levels of motor and cardiovascular health related fitness and should be reconsidered.
Based on the few interventions that were evaluated to date, no robust conclusions can be drawn regarding the effectiveness of obesity prevention. The systematic and multidisciplinary design of the NHF-NRG programme enables the identification of potentially effective methods and strategies for the prevention of weight gain.
Primary school children in Victoria have become more obese over the last decade. Increases in BMI are most marked at the heavier end of the distribution. Lesser increases in median and mean BMI (confirmed by both parametric and non-parametric statistical models) may also have major public health implications.
Our findings suggest that a simple, pragmatic program of daily activity enhances bone strength at the distal tibia in prepubertal boys. The precise exercise prescription needed to elicit a similar response in more mature boys or in girls might be best addressed in a dose-response trial.
In girls, early puberty may be a particularly opportune time during growth for simple exercise interventions to have a positive effect on bone health.
This novel, easily implemented exercise program, took only a few minutes each day and enhanced bone mass at the weight bearing proximal femur in early pubertal children. A large, randomised study of boys and girls should be undertaken powered to test the effectiveness of Bounce at the Bell in children at different stages of maturity, and in boys and girls independently.
An easily implemented school-based jumping intervention augments aBMD at the trochanteric region in the prepubertal and early pubertal skeleton.
The short-term changes observed in the present study are markedly encouraging and indicate great potential for progressive improvement. Continuation and expansion of such a program may prove to be beneficial in initiating long-term changes.
A school-based intervention can reduce the prevalence of overweight and obesity in 6 to 10-year-old children and may affect eating habits at home. The effect of the intervention was possibly due to its effect on healthy eating habits at school and at home rather than on increased levels of PA.
It cannot be assumed that new media technologies are superior to traditional media such as print for health communication to adolescents. These results suggest that a printed workbook was more effective than an identical website for increasing physical activity intentions and behavior among a sample of middle school girls.
A standardized program increased MVPA in middle schools without requiring an increase in frequency or duration of PE lessons. Program components were well received by teachers and have the potential for generalization to other schools. Additional strategies may be needed for girls.
The Saude na Boa study provides evidence that public high schools in Brazil represent an important environment for health promotion. Its design and simple measurements increase the chances of it being sustained and disseminated to similar schools in Brazil.
New Moves was well received and fills a needed niche within school physical education programs. An expanded intervention and evaluation is needed to enhance and assess long-term program effectiveness.
To reach children in socio-economically disadvantaged areas and to prevent age-related declines in activity levels, interventions promoting physical activity should focus on increasing availability and access to community-based organized sports programs at and outside school. Also they should include components to increase parental support and to improve perceived self-efficacy for physical activity.
Low physical activity was associated with several other negative health behaviors in teenagers. Future studies should examine whether interventions for increasing physical activity in youth can be effective in reducing negative health behaviors.
Physical activity can significantly improve motor skills but did not reduce body mass index in young children in this trial.
This process improved the breadth and depth of GEMS formative assessment activities by increasing the appreciation of the complex structural, contextual, and personal forces at play. A similar process may be useful to other investigators when attempting to develop culturally appropriate interventions.
This study confirmed the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy of using dance classes and a family-based intervention to reduce television viewing, thereby reducing weight gain, in African-American girls.
An after-school obesity prevention program for low-income African-American girls is a promising model for future efforts.
The Stanford GEMS trial is testing the benefits of culturally-tailored after-school dance and screen-time reduction interventions for obesity prevention in low-income, pre-adolescent African-American girls.
The results suggest that PA of vigorous intensity may have a greater effect on preventing obesity in children than does PA of lower intensity, whereas both total and at least moderate to vigorous PA may improve children's CVF.
A health-related physical education curriculum can provide students with substantially more physical activity during physical education classes. Improved physical education classes can potentially benefit 97% of elementary school students.
Conclusions are that it is feasible to implement a complex cardiovascular disease prevention program in a socially disadvantaged urban community; that additional evaluation research is needed; that such programs can be transferred from an academic center to a community organization; and that such programs are unlikely to be sustained effectively without external resources.
A regular physical education programme can enhance lung volumes in primary school students. Norms should allow for gender differences, and reflect the potential attainment of students receiving adequate physical training and living in an area of low air pollution.
It appears that having access to and charting daily step counts (ie, self-regulatory strategies) positively influenced young adolescents to attain a higher number of steps/d.
The multicomponent Dutch Obesity Intervention in Teenagers program positively influenced several measures of body composition among both girls and boys. Our results indicate that secondary prevocational school curriculum changes may contribute to excessive weight gain prevention among adolescents.
The results of the study provide support for self-determination theory and corroborate the application of the framework to the context of school PE. Further, we largely found support for the invariance of the motivational processes embraced by self-determination theory across gender.
Our student-led curriculum improved knowledge not only in older schoolchildren but also in their younger buddies. It also decreased weight velocity in the older students. Student-led teaching may be an efficient, easy-to-implement way of promoting a healthy lifestyle from kindergarten to 7th grade.
The collection of school and community studies is limited for several age groups with none below third grade and only three at college age. There are few community studies. The most is known about upper-elementary-age-students, including the first multicenter randomized trial to report significant results for increasing moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) in physical education (PE) and increase vigorous PA outside of school. A number of older study designs were weak and assessments less than optimal, but studies in progress are stronger. Special attention is needed for girls, middle schools, and community settings for all youth. More objective assessments are needed for measuring PA outside of school and in younger children, since they cannot provide reliable self-report.
In conclusion, the favorable alterations in the lipoprotein profile seen in this study would suggest that it is possible to influence the prepubertal lipoprotein profile independent of alterations in confounding variables such as body composition, cardiorespiratory fitness, and habitual physical activity.
These findings are consistent with previous studies using self-reported physical activity and suggest that interventions to increase physical activity in preadolescent youth should endeavor to boost physical activity self-efficacy by offering a wide selection of enjoyable, developmentally-appropriate physical activity options.
This is the first study to show that by modifying existing PE lessons, significant improvements in FMS mastery can be gained without adversely affecting children's MVPA and VPA. To increase PA levels, we recommend increasing the number of PE lessons per week.
The comprehensive PA promotion programme was successful in preventing a decline in children's total activity levels. Furthermore, the intervention increased children's PA engagement in leisure time. Therefore, implementation needs to be encouraged.
Our finding that school programs are effective in preventing childhood obesity supports the need for broader implementation of successful programs, which will reduce childhood obesity and, in the longer term, comorbid conditions and health care spending.
Conduit vessel FMD, a validated surrogate measure of early atherosclerosis, was impaired in obese children but improved as a result of exercise training. This study supports the value of an exercise program in the treatment of obese children in a primary prevention setting.
This study provides preliminary evidence that increasing adolescent involvement and choice of activities may be important in developing future PA interventions for underserved adolescents.
Implications of this innovative school-based trial are discussed.
Although initially successful, the interventions studied here were not effective in producing long-term changes in behavior, weight, or physiological parameters. However, weight loss from 0 to 2 years reduced the risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Since modest weight loss significantly reduced risk of type 2 diabetes, further research is needed to determine how best to increase the percentage of subjects achieving at least a modest weight loss.
Professionals who attempt to increase the prevalence of physical exercise through educational methods should focus on the psychosocial variables utilized in this study.
Hypertension is an under-recognized clinical entity in children. Studies are needed to define the mechanisms and magnitude of cardiovascular risk, the role of ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, and the efficacy and safety of drug therapy.
This classroom-based, public health approach improved children's cardiovascular disease risk profiles; it is practical and fairly easy to incorporate into the school day. All children directly receive the potential benefits of the intervention without a risk of labeling. This program can improve health knowledge, habits, and health outcomes of young children at a time when health habits are being formed.
These results indicate that there is evidence of early consolidation and tracking of physical activity, food preference, and smoking behavior. The early consolidation of health behaviors implies that interventions should begin prior to sixth grade, before behavioral patterns are resistant to change. The smoking results suggest that students are experiencing difficulty quitting smoking; thus, youth smoking cessation interventions are warranted.
This study illustrates the multidimensional nature of childhood physical activity and the influence of sociocultural factors on children's activity patterns.
The average amount of physical activity observed in this regional sample of schools was less than the estimated national average of 27% and far less than the national recommendation calling for a minimum of 50%.
It appears that social learning variables may be important correlates of physical activity in children.
The EPHPP has demonstrated the ability to adapt the most current methods of systematic literature reviews of effectiveness to questions related to public health nursing. Other positive outcomes from the process include the development of a critical mass of public health researchers and practitioners who can actively participate in the process, and the work on dissemination has been successful in attracting external funds. A program of research in this area is being developed.
Increasing overweight among youths implies a need to focus on primary prevention. Attempts to increase physical activity may provide a means to address this important public health problem.
Obese children under three years of age without obese parents are at low risk for obesity in adulthood, but among older children, obesity is an increasingly important predictor of adult obesity, regardless of whether the parents are obese. Parental obesity more than doubles the risk of adult obesity among both obese and nonobese children under 10 years of age.
Results suggest that among minority and lower socioeconomic status adolescents the prevalence of vigorous exercise decreases with age or when students are not required to participate in school physical education and that social factors may be instrumental for sustaining vigorous exercise.
Individuals who received the ECAM intervention derived a modest but significant benefit from it. To achieve a more robust clinical benefit from the intervention, it may be necessary to manage other key symptoms in addition to fatigue. Research is needed to examine symptom clusters or combinations associated with negative outcomes as well as combination strategies for symptom management.
Supportive-expressive group therapy does not prolong survival in women with metastatic breast cancer. It improves mood and the perception of pain, particularly in women who are initially more distressed.
The preliminary results partially supported the effectiveness of TIP-C for symptom management and quality of life. The authors hypothesized that decreased depression, reduced negative affect, decreased stress, decreased fatigue, and increased positive affect over time would be the resulting psychosocial effects, given the theoretical underpinnings of the intervention.
Music imagery is feasible for adults with acute leukemia in protected environments. Patients with lower initial distress may benefit from a music imagery program in terms of reduced anxiety at discharge.
The IHA improved documentation of supportive care needs and resources. There is still room for improvement.
These initial findings suggest that yoga has significant potential and should be further explored as a beneficial physical activity option for cancer survivors. Future research might attempt to include a broader range of participants (e.g. other types of cancer diagnoses, male subjects), a larger sample size, and a longer program duration in an RCT.
Patients who experienced neutropenia did not benefit from a CBI to lower symptoms. The overall effect of this intervention came almost exclusively from patients without neutropenia.
Brief psychologic interventions such as guided imagery and relaxation yielded a very positive patient response but did not show a clinically relevant influence on the postoperative physiologic course of elderly patients undergoing conventional resections of colorectal cancer.
Adding a cognitive-behavioral training to group-based self-management physical training did not have additional beneficial effects on cancer survivors' quality of life. Compared with the nonintervention group, the group-based self-management rehabilitation improved cancer survivors' quality of life.
BSW intervention therapy is an effective way to treat fatigue and emesis. This virtual reality system is a new therapeutic method that can be used in palliative medicine.
During RT, nutritional interventions positively influenced outcomes, and counseling was of similar/higher benefit; in the medium term, only counseling exerted a significant impact on patient outcomes.
A cognitive behavioral intervention to teach problem-solving skills can be effective for patient symptom self-management during and following an intervention.
Apparently, women who are being diagnosed with breast cancer, but otherwise have no psychosocial adjustment problems following the diagnosis, do not especially benefit from a short-term intervention program compared to women in the control group.
Audiotapes are effective teaching tools. Self-care behaviors can be taught and can be effective in managing side effects. Anxiety was high in both groups, but the symptom decreased in the women who received audiotapes and telephone calls.
The program is instructionally effective, appropriate for a wide and geographically diverse audience, and feasible for use in the ambulatory setting.
Exercise interventions resulted in small positive effects on health and well-being outcomes among existing studies. Future research should examine intervention-specific characteristics that result in optimal results, such as dose.
The prevalence of fatigue increased significantly after the start of chemotherapy. After chemotherapy treatment the prevalence rate seemed to decline. A different impact of chemotherapy on the course of fatigue was found. In the doxorubicin group a direct increase in fatigue was found. In the CMF group a moderate direct increase occurred, followed by a delayed strong increase. An increase in fatigue was associated with a decrease in daily functioning. At all measurement occasions fatigue was affected by type of operation, such that women with a mastectomy were more fatigued than women that underwent a lumpectomy. Receiving radiotherapy also led to an increase in fatigue. With this knowledge breast cancer patients can be better informed about what they can expect. Further research should include interventions addressing how to reduce or cope with fatigue during as well as after receiving adjuvant chemotherapy.
Fatigue was a common adverse effect of RT for cancer, reported by more than three-fourths of patients by the third to fifth weeks of treatment. Cancer diagnosis was the only factor found to be significantly related to variation in fatigue severity. Additional studies should be devised to identify other underlying causes of RT-related fatigue.
Findings provide limited support for use of nonpharmacological interventions to manage cancer-related fatigue. The lack of research with heightened fatigue as an eligibility criterion is a notable weakness of the existing evidence base.
Severe fatigue is a problem for almost 40% of the sample of breast cancer survivors. Severe fatigue is related to physical, psychological, social, cognitive and behavioural factors.
There is preliminary evidence that exercise interventions for cancer patients can lead to moderate increases in physical function and are not associated with increased symptoms of fatigue. However, it is impossible from current evidence to determine whether exercise has long term beneficial effects on survival or quality of life.
NAC can be preserved in patients having stage I, II and III diseases with peripheral tumours less than 5 cm in size, irrespective of the nodal status and skin involvement.
NSM is an oncologically safe procedure and could be offered to most patients with breast cancer unsuitable for sector resection only. RT effectively lowers the frequency of LRR. The occurrence of LRR after this operation does not significantly affect OS.
Our study supports other findings regarding safety and efficacy of nipple sparing subcutaneous mastectomy for selected patients.
Prophylactic mastectomy is associated with a substantial reduction in the incidence of subsequent breast cancer not only in women identified as being at high risk on the basis of a family history of breast cancer but also in known BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carriers.
Occult NAC involvement occurred in only a small percentage of patients undergoing skin-sparing mastectomies. NAC preservation would be appropriate in axillary node-negative patients with small, solitary tumors located on the periphery of the breast.
The risk of local relapse was very low in our series of nipple-sparing mastectomies performed for DCIS or invasive cancer. Nipple-sparing mastectomy in the risk-reducing and breast cancer-treatment settings may be feasible in selected patients and should be the subject of additional prospective clinical trials.
We conclude from these data that nipple preservation is not a reasonable option for mastectomy patients. However, preservation of the areola with mastectomy in selected patients warrants further study.
The long-term survival rate among women who undergo breast-conserving surgery is the same as that among women who undergo radical mastectomy. Breast-conserving surgery is therefore the treatment of choice for women with relatively small breast cancers.
In the one-fifth of cases where the tumour is over 2.5 cm from the areola, preserving the nipple and areola for reconstruction may be worthwhile. In remaining cases, some other predictive test for nipple involvement would be necessary.
There was no OS difference between the two arms, although PVI 5-FU was associated with a trend towards better RFS and OS compared with bolus 5-FU/LV, as well as significantly less toxicity. Based on our results, the probability of 12 weeks of PVI 5-FU being inferior to 6 months of bolus 5-FU/LV is extremely low (P <0.005), and therefore shorter duration of adjuvant treatment should be explored further.
Hormone replacement therapy was associated with an increased risk of stroke, particularly of ischaemic type. Among subjects who had a stroke, those taking hormone replacement therapy seemed to have a worse outcome. Hormone replacement therapy cannot be recommended for the primary or secondary prevention of stroke.
Combination chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cisplatin results in higher response rates than doxorubicin alone. The addition of paclitaxel to either of these regimens resulted in a small survival advantage in one trial using all three drugs. In light of the limited survival advantage associated with this regimen, the use of less toxic combinations of taxanes with carboplatin requires further study. Medroxyprogesterone acetate is useful in selected patients.
This study demonstrates that estrogen plus progestin increases BMD and reduces the risk of fracture in healthy postmenopausal women. The decreased risk of fracture attributed to estrogen plus progestin appeared to be present in all subgroups of women examined. When considering the effects of hormone therapy on other important disease outcomes in a global model, there was no net benefit, even in women considered to be at high risk of fracture.
There is no evidence to suggest that estrogen decreased the disease-free interval or increased the risk for recurrence in early-stage disease.
Danazol has minimal activity in advanced, recurrent, or persistent endometrial carcinoma.
Endometrial biopsy with the Pipelle is superior to other endometrial techniques in the detection of endometrial carcinoma and atypical hyperplasia. The accuracy of the Pipelle is higher in postmenopausal women compared with premenopausal women.
Lower rates of CHD events among women in the hormone group in the final years of HERS did not persist during additional years of follow-up. After 6.8 years, hormone therapy did not reduce risk of cardiovascular events in women with CHD. Postmenopausal hormone therapy should not be used to reduce risk for CHD events in women with CHD.
The histopathological finding of endometrial adenomatous hyperplasia or cancer in about 15% of the postmenopausal women with bleeding justifies a thorough examination. The probability of cancer as the underlying cause increased with age. The endometrium was atrophic in 50%. Eight women had ovarian tumours. These findings may imply that transvaginal ultrasound examination should be included in the evaluation of postmenopausal bleeding as occasionally endometrial biopsies of atrophic endometrium could be avoided and ovarian pathology detected.
During an average follow-up of 4.1 years, treatment with oral conjugated equine estrogen plus medroxyprogesterone acetate did not reduce the overall rate of CHD events in postmenopausal women with established coronary disease. The treatment did increase the rate of thromboembolic events and gallbladder disease. Based on the finding of no overall cardiovascular benefit and a pattern of early increase in risk of CHD events, we do not recommend starting this treatment for the purpose of secondary prevention of CHD. However, given the favorable pattern of CHD events after several years of therapy, it could be appropriate for women already receiving this treatment to continue.
Lower income was associated with advanced-stage disease, lower likelihood of receiving a hysterectomy, and lower rates of survival. Earlier diagnosis and removal of barriers to optimal treatment among lower-socioeconomic status women will diminish racial/ethnic differences in endometrial cancer survival.
Arzoxifene has demonstrated a high response rate with the longest median duration of response reported in a phase II trial of this patient population. The ease of administration and extremely favorable toxicity profile make this an agent warranting further evaluation.
Use of oestrogens without progestogens is associated with a twofold to threefold increase in risk of endometrial neoplasia. Use of progestogens either removes this increased risk or delays its onset. A further follow up of the cohort is essential to analyse the risks with greater statistical power.
The progestin in sequential estrogen-progestin replacement therapy needs to be given for at least 10 days to block effectively any increased risk of endometrial cancer. Continuous combined estrogen-progestin therapy is similarly effective. Neither regimen reduces a woman's underlying risk of endometrial cancer. The sharp distinction between the effects of less than 10 days (effectively 7 days) and 10 or more days (effectively 10 days) of progestin use in sequential estrogen-progestin replacement therapy suggests that the extent of endometrial sloughing may play a critical role in determining endometrial cancer risk.
In older women, a dosage of 0.25 mg/d of 17beta-estradiol increased bone density of the hip, spine, and total body, and reduced bone turnover, with minimal adverse effects. Future studies evaluating the effect of low-dose estrogen on fractures are indicated.
Women who initiated hormone therapy closer to menopause tended to have reduced CHD risk compared with the increase in CHD risk among women more distant from menopause, but this trend test did not meet our criterion for statistical significance. A similar nonsignificant trend was observed for total mortality but the risk of stroke was elevated regardless of years since menopause. These data should be considered in regard to the short-term treatment of menopausal symptoms.
The vast majority of Greek obstetrician-gynaecologists would not prescribe hormone therapy for menopausal symptoms in breast cancer survivors due to the theoretical risk of disease recurrence. Among those who would not prescribe hormone therapy, 21% would opt to CNS-active compounds.
VSL#3 is effective at preventing severe diarrhea following chemotherapy with irinotecan and therefore has potential to be used clinically by cancer patients.
Glutamine reduces changes in IA and IP induced by FU and may have a protective effect on FU induced diarrhoea.
Our study indicates an increase of tumour incidence in all colonic segments more than a shift to the right colon. TNM staging tended to improve with an appreciable increase of localised lesions. These findings could be consequent to a more extensive use of colonoscopy.
Severe diarrhea requiring hospital admission is a costly and potentially fatal complication of chemotherapy in colorectal cancer. The identification of predictive factors and the implementation of prophylactic measures could reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with diarrhea.
The orally administered topical active steroid budesonide is highly effective in the therapy of loperamide-refractory chemotherapy (CPT-11 or 5-FU)-induced diarrhea.
Overall, in comparison with follow-up cytology, HPV DNA testing is more sensitive and equally specific for triage of ASCUS cases and for predicting recurrence of CIN in women treated for high-grade CIN.
Cancer survival depends on the widespread application of effective diagnosis and treatment modalities, but our enquiry suggests that the availability of these depends on macro-economic determinants, including health and public health investment. Analysis of the relationship between health system organisation and cancer outcome is complicated and requires more information than is at present available. To describe cancer and cancer management in Europe, the European Cancer Health Indicator Project (EUROCHIP) has proposed a list of indicators that have to be adopted to evaluate the effects on outcome of proposed health system modifications.
Compared to cytology, the HC2 and PCR are substantially more sensitive for prevalent CIN2 or worse but significantly less specific. The combination of HC2 and cytology has the highest sensitivity and lowest specificity. However, reduction of the incidence of or mortality from invasive cervical cancer among HPV screened subjects compared to cytologically screened subjects has not yet been demonstrated.
The addition of an HPV test to the Pap test to screen women in their mid-30s for cervical cancer reduces the incidence of grade 2 or 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cancer detected by subsequent screening examinations. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
We describe the results of a systematic literature review and an explicit approach to consensus techniques which resulted in recommendations for the key therapeutic decisions in patients with CLL.
Chlorambucil does not prolong survival in patients with stage A CLL. Since deferring therapy until the disease progresses to stage B or C does not compromise survival, treatment of indolent CLL is unnecessary.
Genomic aberrations in chronic lymphocytic leukemia are important independent predictors of disease progression and survival. These findings have implications for the design of risk-adapted treatment strategies.
The administration of temozolomide after RT did not alter the poor prognosis associated with newly diagnosed diffuse brainstem glioma in children.
Children aged <3 years with DPG potentially may fare better than older patients with the same diagnosis despite the use of similar therapy. The current results suggested that DPG in younger children may be distinct biologically from similar tumors in older age groups.
Brain stem tumors can be succinctly and better biologically classified as diffusely infiltrative brain stem gliomas-generally FA located in the ventral pons that present with abducens palsy, often engulf the basilar artery, and carry a grim prognosis-and focal brain stem gliomas-frequently PA arising outside the ventral pons, often with dorsal exophytic growth, a long clinical prodrome, and outstanding prognosis for survival. Our findings emphasize the individuality of PA as a distinct clinicopathologic entity with an exceptional prognosis.
Patients with glioblastoma containing a methylated MGMT promoter benefited from temozolomide, whereas those who did not have a methylated MGMT promoter did not have such a benefit.
The large data base of the GCCR made it possible to present representative data on patients with childhood tumors of the central nervous system in Germany. The data quality was high, not least because of the strong cooperation with corresponding clinical trials. However, for children with central nervous system tumors, the ascertainment of newly diagnosed patients needs further improvement.
Although overall objective responses were limited, further exploration of temozolomide may be warranted in children with medulloblastoma and other PNETs, or in patients with low-grade astrocytoma, perhaps in a setting of less pretreatment than the patients in the current study, or in the context of multiagent therapy.
UC is a useful device in laparoscopic colorectal surgery that facilitates completion of difficult cases and reduces intraoperative blood loss. Nevertheless, the majority of laparoscopic procedures can be completed with ES. Therefore, selective use of UC appears to be the most cost-effective policy.
Results showed that Ligasure and Ultracision are both useful instruments for laparoscopic colorectal surgery with no significant difference in terms of intraoperative/postoperative morbidity and operative time. Choice of which technique to perform should be according to the surgeon's preference.
In our laparoscopic colorectal experience, EBVS Ligasure has proven safe and effective in vessel sealing. Patients in whom this device was used had less blood loss and slight advantages in operating time and postoperative hospital stay.
In situ thermal imaging represents a powerful modality for the monitoring of energized dissection/coagulation during surgery. The LigaSure system used with the LS1100 head constitutes a very safe option for energized dissection and hemostasis of vessels with a diameter of up to approximately 7 mm.
Both the PC and LC secured all vessel sizes to well above physiologic levels. The EBVS can be used confidently in vessels up to 7 mm. There is no difference in the thermal spread of the LigaSure vessel sealer and the UCS.
The LS has the highest burst pressure and fastest sealing time and was the highest rated overall. The HS produced the lowest thermal spread and smoke but had the lowest mean burst pressure. The GP had the highest smoke production, and variable burst pressures. Despite employing nanotechnology, the ES device was the slowest and had variable burst pressures.
The bursting pressures with EnSeal were significantly higher than with all the other instruments. Harmonic ACE was the fastest sealing instrument and LigaSure Atlas was slowest. EnSeal created less radial thermal damage to the adventitial collagen of the vessels and LigaSure Atlas created less thermal damage to the media of the vessels. The clinical significance of these findings is unknown.
Using univariate analysis, the authors determined prognostic factors that were significantly associated with a favorable impact on survival including age younger than 60 years, radiation therapy (without evidence of a dose-response relationship), radiation therapy combined with chemotherapy, and chemotherapy consisting of anthracycline. Partial surgical resection was an unfavorable prognostic factor. Multivariate analysis was used to confirm the independent prognostic value of radiation therapy, age, chemotherapy consisting of anthracyclines or methotrexate, and partial surgical resection. This European survey provides a reasonable basis for the treatment of primary intracerebral lymphoma with the following sequence: stereotactic biopsy sampling, chemotherapy with a methotrexate- and anthracycline-based regimen, followed by cranial irradiation.
A subset of patients with IOL may experience sustained remission when treated with high-dose i.v. MTX alone. Although micromolar MTX concentrations are present in the eye 4 h after infusion, the lower concentration achieved in vitreous humor may contribute to persistence of IOL.
Combination CHT-RT is superior to RT alone. Patients treated with primary CHT containing HD-MTX exhibited improved survival. In these patients, the addition of HD-cytarabine was associated with a better survival, whereas intrathecal CHT was not correlated to outcome. RT may be unnecessary in patients achieving complete remission after receiving HD-MTX-based primary CHT.
HDMTX is a safe treatment for PCNSL patients regardless of age, with adherence to dose reduction determined by calculating the GFR before each treatment cycle.
In contrast to recent reports of a progressively increasing incidence, the authors found that PCNSL rates have been decreasing in the majority of demographic groups in the U.S since the mid-1990s. A notable exception was observed in the highest PCNSL risk group, those age >or= 60 years.
The increase in the incidence of PCNSL in the 1980s may be explained in large part by changes in diagnostics and registration. The relatively high incidence and low survival rate of PCNSL in the southern and eastern Netherlands reported in the 1990s may be due in part to the inclusion of patients with systemic lymphoma and immunodeficiency disorders. However, a significant improvement in the prognosis of patients with PCNSL in the southern and eastern Netherlands diagnosed in the 1990s is unlikely.
By 1998 both screening and other factors, including improvements in treatment, had resulted in substantial reductions in mortality from breast cancer. Many deaths in the 1990s will be of women diagnosed in the 1980s and early 1990s, before invitation to screening. Further major effects from screening and treatment are expected, which together with cohort effects should result in further substantial reductions in mortality from breast cancer, particularly for women aged 55-69, over the next 10 years.
Ensuring that all women eligible for further screening do get invited could substantially increase the re-screening rate. Even women who have declined previous invitations should be offered further invitations, as a substantial proportion with to be screened. Flexible and convenient appointment times are the main modifiable logistic issue. The major factor influencing non-participation with further screening is a painful experience of mammography. Innovative approaches, either to reduce the pain or to reduce the impact of the pain on the woman's attitude to re-screening, should be trialed.
The low levels of reported pain and discomfort shortly after mammography and the favourable comparisons with other investigations suggest that current procedures are acceptable. Since two thirds of the women experienced less pain than expected health education and promotion must ensure that accurate information is made available and publicized.
Blue food coloring should not be used as a clinical monitor. Converting nasogastric tubes to percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy tubes may be a successful strategy to reduce the risk of aspiration. No appropriate designated RV level to identify aspiration could be derived as a result of poor sensitivity over a wide range of RV. Study results do not support the conventional use of RV as a marker for the risk of aspiration.
Nasal loops are safe, well tolerated, and effective at delivering full enteral nutrition. Nasal loops allow time for patients who may recover normal swallowing to do so, and thus avoid a PEG. Nasal loops avoid unnecessary PEG insertion in those with a poor prognosis who will not ultimately survive their initial stroke.
Further controlled studies are needed to ascertain which is the appropriate dose of vitamin D in advanced stages of neurological disease, where sun exposure is difficult and unlikely. We suggest that the vitamin D content should probably be reconsidered in enteral nutrition formulas, which, in light of recent publications appear as clearly insufficient for standard energy intakes (1,500-2,000 kcal).
PRG appears to be safer than PEG in ALS patients with moderate or severe respiratory impairment, and is followed by a longer survival.
Dysphagia occurs in more than a third of patients with stroke admitted to rehabilitation. Clinical assessment demonstrates good correlation with VFS. The grade of dysphagia correlates with dysarthria, aphasia, low FIM, and level of cognitive functioning. Large cortical strokes of nondominant side are associated with dysphagia.
Service organizations may promote adherence to NIV, IV, EN, and influence postprocedure survival. These data may be useful in defining health plans regarding advanced ALS care and in patient counseling.
Early use of post-pyloric feeding instead of gastric feeding in critically ill adult patients with no evidence of impaired gastric emptying was not associated with significant clinical benefits.
Despite more than 30 years of experience with PEG, numerous questions remain regarding the utility of nutrition support in many of the clinical scenarios in which PEG placement is contemplated. There is a multitude of evidence that artificial nutrition does not improve outcome or quality of life in patients with dementia who have decreased oral intake. It is likely that ethical, moral, religious, and legal considerations of family members and caregivers play a role in the decision to place a PEG in a patient with dementia despite the medical evidence demonstrating lack of benefit.
MDT-PD is a valid screening tool for early diagnosis of swallowing problems and aspiration risk, as well as initial graduation of dysphagia severity in PD patients.
The most likely explanations for the lack of efficacy of CAP are poor compliance to the protocol and relative inactivity of the regimen, compared with the activity of drug combinations used in more recent studies. On the basis of this trial, adjuvant therapy with CAP should not be recommended for patients with resected stage I lung cancer.
In patients with Stage III non-small-cell lung cancer, induction chemotherapy with cisplatin and vinblastine before radiation significantly improves median survival (by about four months) and doubles the number of long-term survivors, as compared with radiation therapy alone. Since three quarters of the patients still die within three years, however, further improvements in systemic and local therapy are needed.
The combination of supportive care and cisplatin-cyclophosphamide-mitomycin therapy offers a survival advantage over supportive care alone in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer.
In "good-risk" patients with surgically unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer, induction chemotherapy followed by irradiation was superior to hyperfractionated radiation therapy or standard radiation therapy alone, yielding a statistically significant short-term survival advantage.
AlloHSCT induces high rates of complete remission in advanced lymphoma patients, even when the tumor had relapsed after autologous HSCT. It should be considered earlier as part of the therapeutic options in poor risk patients to avoid non-relapse mortality associated with extensive pretreatment. Our novel reduced conditioning regimens show promising results, especially in heavily pretreated patients, and improve survival after allogeneic transplantation.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has the potential for sustained remission and the possibility of cure for young patients with advanced and recalcitrant cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Even in the absence of complete remission, an allogeneic graft-vs-tumor effect may provide an immune mechanism to control the malignant T-cell process and alter the natural history of disease.
Patients with MF and SS have varying risks for disease progression or death. The most important clinical predictive factors for survival include patient age, T classification, and the presence of extracutaneous disease. The significant disease-specific survival differences between different clinical stages validate the usefulness of the present MF clinical staging system of the National Cancer Institute.
The incidence of both CTCL and MF/SS increased in Norway during the period 1980-2003.
The current incidence rates among the registries of Germany are fairly similar but are considerably lower than incidence rates from the United States and Israel. Several methodological issues hamper the analysis of population-based incidence data of skin lymphoma.
Serum LDH and age were the strongest predictive factors for OS in E-CTCL.
Hepatic metastases from neuroendocrine tumors are best managed with a multidisciplinary approach. Both HAE and surgical resection provide excellent palliation of hormonal and pain symptoms. In select patients, surgical resection of hepatic metastases may prolong survival, but is rarely curative.
The baseline analysis indicated that in the long-term MP would be expected to be cheaper and more effective than CS for both HBD and NHBD recipients. A definitive study of the clinical benefit of MP in order to establish its effect on DGF and longer term graft survival would be valuable, together with an economic evaluation of the benefits. While direct evidence relating to improvements in graft survival would be preferable, the small predicted improvement indicates that a very large sample size would be required. In addition to seeking direct evidence of the impact on DGF, research quantifying the impact of DGF on graft survival in this technology is required. Research is also needed to establish whether a valid test (or combination of tests) of kidney viability can be developed.
Hepatic surgical cytoreduction can palliate progressive symptoms associated with liver metastases from intractable neuroendocrine tumors. Postoperative adjuvant therapy with octreotide LAR can prolong symptom-free survival.
The combination of cisplatin and etoposide can produce significant responses in patients with heavily pretreated and poorly differentiated/rapidly progressing neuroendocrine tumors. The toxicity is considerable, and nephrotoxicity is the dose limiting factor.
Patients with carcinoid tumors had better outcomes than patients with islet cell carcinomas. The addition of intraarterial chemotherapy to HAE did not improve the outcome of patients with carcinoid tumors, but it seemed to benefit patients with islet cell carcinomas. In patients who had carcinoid tumors, male gender predicted a poor outcome, and a trend toward prolonged PFS was observed in patients who received concomitant octreotide. An intact primary tumor, extensive liver disease, and bone metastases were associated with reduced survival in patients with islet cell carcinomas.
This study represents the largest series of neuroendocrine hepatic metastases treated by RFA. In this group of patients with aggressive neuroendocrine tumor metastases and limited treatment options, RFA provides effective local control with prompt symptomatic improvement.
Carcinoids appear to have increased in overall incidence over the past 30 years; for some sites, this trend has been evident for nearly half a century. Recent marked increases in gastric and rectal carcinoids and a concomitant decrease in appendiceal carcinoid incidence may be due in part to varying rules of registration among the compiled databases examined in this report or to improvements in diagnostic technology; increased awareness of and about carcinoid tumors also may play a significant role. In 12.9% of all patients with carcinoid, distant metastases already were evident at the time of diagnosis; the overall 5-year survival rate for all carcinoid tumors, regardless of site, was 67.2%. These findings bring into question the widely promulgated relative benignity of carcinoid disease. Certain carcinoid tumors, such as those of the rectum, appear to be over-represented among the black and Asian populations within the United States, suggesting the role of genetics in the development of this intriguing disease.
(131)I-mIBG therapy produces symptomatic and hormonal improvement and moderate tumour regression/stabilization in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumours with minimal adverse effects. It may be a valuable alternative or additional therapeutic option to the currently available conventional treatment modalities.
Cytoreduction for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors resulted in improved symptomatic relief and survival when compared with embolic therapy in this nonrandomized study. Cytoreduction should be pursued whenever possible even if complete resection may not be achievable.
Radionuclide therapy appears to offer good palliation to patients with progressive NENs.
Hepatic resection for metastatic neuroendocrine tumors is safe and achieves symptom control in most patients. Debulking extends survival, although recurrence is expected. Hepatic resection is justified by its effects on survival and quality of life.
Many routinely used summary methods provide widely ranging estimates when applied to sparse data with high imbalance between the size of the studies' arms. A sensitivity analysis using several methods and continuity correction factors is advocated for routine practice.
Surgical resection of metastatic neuroendocrine tumors provides the best chance for extended survival. Chemoembolization effectively improves clinical symptoms and, in selected patients, may provide sustained tumor control.
Patients who received more intensive adjuvant therapy experienced transient declines in QOL. By 12 months after therapy, QOL was comparable between the 2 arms, regardless of therapy intensity, and many QOL areas were improved from baseline.
High-dose alkylating therapy improves relapse-free survival among patients with stage II or III breast cancer and 10 or more positive axillary lymph nodes. This benefit may be confined to patients with HER-2/neu-negative tumors.
The findings from this subgroup analysis provide additional evidence that HER2/neu-positive breast cancer is relatively resistant to alkylating agents. For HER2/neu-negative tumours, however, high-dose chemotherapy should remain the subject of clinical studies.
The results suggest that cognitive dysfunction following adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients may be transient. Additional studies are needed to investigate the differential attrition of patients with cognitive impairment.
After a median follow-up of 6.9 years there was no difference in OS or DFS rates between the two treatment groups. The number of tumor-positive axillary lymph nodes after induction chemotherapy and the clinical T-stage before chemotherapy were significant factors for OS.
The addition of high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation to six cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with CAF may reduce the risk of relapse but does not improve the outcome among patients with primary breast cancer and at least 10 involved axillary lymph nodes. Conventional-dose adjuvant chemotherapy remains the standard of care for such patients.
At the present time, no benefit has been observed from replacing three cycles of conventional chemotherapy with the HDT regimen described here. Patients should continue to receive conventional chemotherapy as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer.
With a median follow-up of nearly 12 years for patients who remained alive, this trial continued to demonstrate no RFS or OS advantage for patients with high-risk primary breast carcinoma treated with HDCT after standard-dose FAC chemotherapy.
No relapse-free or overall survival advantage was associated with the use of high-dose chemotherapy, and morbidity was increased with its use. Thus, high-dose chemotherapy is not indicated outside a clinical trial.
Many clinicians no longer subscribe to the concept of HDC for breast cancer. Overall outcomes from management of poor-risk breast cancer remain poor, however, and it is possible that some selected subgroups of patients may benefit from such an approach.
CTCb is an intensification regimen with a low mortality that delivers a significantly increased dose of agents with known activity at conventional doses in breast cancer. Although the duration of PR is short as expected, CRs appear to be durable.
Firm conclusions are not possible because of the lack of controlled studies and the presence of numerous biases. However, the existing evidence does not demonstrate that HDC/ABMT is superior to conventional-dose chemotherapy for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Randomized controlled trials are needed.
High-dose intensification therapy has led to increased CR rates in metastatic breast cancer. The role of such therapy in the treatment of stage IV breast cancer requires further refinement.
Self-reported data may overestimate the percentage of the population that has been screened and underestimate the interval since the last cancer detection procedures.
This study demonstrates that the recurrence and survival rates were similar in both groups. SOH neck dissection can be recommended as standard elective treatment for patients with T2-T4 oral squamous cell carcinomas.
This Phase III trial established the power of risk assessment using pathologic features in determining the need for, and dose of, PORT in patients with advanced head-and-neck squamous cell cancer in a prospective, multi-institutional setting. It also revealed the impact of the overall treatment time in the combination of surgery and PORT on the outcome in high-risk patients and showed that PORT acceleration without a reduction in dose by a concomitant boost regimen did not increase the late complication rate. These findings emphasize the importance of coordinated interdisciplinary care in the delivery of combined surgery and RT.
Postoperative concurrent administration of high-dose cisplatin with radiotherapy is more efficacious than radiotherapy alone in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer and does not cause an undue number of late complications.
Among high-risk patients with resected head and neck cancer, concurrent postoperative chemotherapy and radiotherapy significantly improve the rates of local and regional control and disease-free survival. However, the combined treatment is associated with a substantial increase in adverse effects.
The data emerging from this trial indicate that perilymphatic administration of low, nontoxic doses of rIL-2 is a simple and manageable way to delay recurrences of SCC.
A trend of better distant control in head and neck cancer patients with post-operative adjuvant oral chemotherapy was observed. The side effects were minimal. However, there was no statistically significant improvement in the overall long-term survival. It may be of value to conduct a large-scale multi-centre prospective randomized study to verify the efficacy of levamisole and UFT as post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy for the control of distant metastasis in high-risk population.
When all 237 randomly assigned patients were analyzed, there were no significant differences in the two treatment strategies in loco-regional failure or in disease-free or overall survival, although the development of distant metastases was reduced. For operable patients, the only benefit from neoadjuvant chemotherapy was a significant reduction in the incidence of distant metastases. For inoperable patients, neoadjuvant chemotherapy improved local control, decreased the incidence of distant metastases, and improved the complete remission rate and overall survival.
The long term survival results subsequent to preoperative intra-arterial chemotherapy or preoperative radiotherapy were practically the same. Regarding postoperative quality of life, patients who underwent intra-arterial chemotherapy appeared to be in a slightly more favorable situation. The authors consider it important to stress these findings, as they are not aware of a similar randomized study of patients with tumors of the oral cavity.
Authors are in substantial agreement regarding the reliability of tumor thickness. The lack of comparable study groups, measurement techniques, and cut-off values points to the need for further studies so as to reach a consensus and to develop therapy protocols that include tumor thickness.
The results of the current study provide baseline incidence rates of potentially HPV-associated cancers of the oropharynx and oral cavity that can be compared with rates after the widespread implementation of the HPV vaccination.
These findings suggest that spatio-temporal functional re-organisation is possible in peritumoural brain, and that the process is dynamic. The recruitment of compensatory areas with long term perilesional functional reshaping would explain why: before surgery, there is no clinical deficit despite the tumour growth in eloquent regions; immediately after surgery, the occurrence of a deficit, which could be due to the resection of invaded areas participating (but not essential) to the function; and why three months after surgery, almost complete recovery had occurred. This brain plasticity, which decreases the long term risk of surgical morbidity, may be used to extend the limits of surgery in eloquent areas.
Craniotomies tailored to limit cortical exposure, even without localization of positive language sites, permit most gliomas to be aggressively resected without language deficits. The composite language maps generated in our study suggest that our current models of human language organization insufficiently account for observed language function.
Recovery of aphasia in adults can occur rapidly and is concomitant with an activation pattern that changes from left to a homologous right hemispheric pattern. Such recovery occurs even when the stroke evolves to completion. Such plasticity must be considered when evaluating stroke interventions based on behavioral and neurological measurements.
Three months of oral etoposide in non-progressing patients with extensive SCLC was associated with a significant improvement in PFS and a trend towards improved overall survival.
A highly sensitive search in either database requires a combination of approaches, and has low precision. This suggests that better reporting and indexing of adverse effects is required and that an effective generic search filter may not yet be feasible.
We conclude that intracranial metastases from SCLC seem to respond to chemotherapy as readily as other metastatic locations of SCLC do. Thus first-line cranial irradiation probably should be applied routinely only in cases of delayed brain metastases. Whether consolidating cranial RT should be given after a few courses of initial chemotherapy in SCLC patients with brain metastases at diagnosis is unclear and warrants a randomized evaluation.
In this prospective study, neurologic disorders were diagnosed in greater than half of the patients with SCLC. BM were detected most frequently. Approximately 18% of the patients were found to have BM at the time of diagnosis. In approximately 33% of the cases, these BM did not cause symptoms. BM were found to have a negative effect on survival in patients with SCLC.
The current prospective study found a 2-year cumulative incidence of LMM of 10%, with a prevalence of 2%. Patients with LMM located in the spinal cord appeared to survive longer than patients with cranial LMM. SCLC patients with BM located in the posterior fossa may be at a higher risk of developing LMM compared with patients with cerebral BM.
Medulloblastomas with extensive nodularity represent a variant that is characterized by: 1) occurrence in very young children; 2) a peculiar grapelike appearance on neuroimaging; and 3) an apparently favorable outcome.
Low MYC mRNA expression is a powerful independent predictor of favorable clinical outcome in PNET/MB. Assessment of MYC mRNA levels is feasible and may be incorporated in prospective PNET/MB clinical trials to aid in treatment planning for patients with PNET/MB on confirmation of our results in larger studies.
Childhood brain tumor survivors are at a significantly increased risk for several adverse endocrine and cardiovascular late effects, particularly if they were treated with radiation and chemotherapy. Lifetime medical surveillance and follow-up for potential toxicities are necessary because treatment-related complications may occur many years after therapy.
Maintenance chemotherapy would seem to be more effective in low-risk medulloblastoma, especially in patients older than 6 years of age. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy was accompanied by increased myelotoxicity of the subsequent radiotherapy, causing a higher rate of interruptions and an extended overall treatment time. Delayed and/or protracted radiotherapy may therefore have a negative impact on outcome. M2/3 disease was associated with a poor survival in both arms, suggesting the need for a more intensive treatment. Young age and M2/3 stage were negative prognostic factors in medulloblastoma, but residual or M1 disease was not, suggesting a new stratification system for risk subgroups. High quality of radiotherapy may be a major contributing factor for the overall outcome.
Postoperative chemotherapy alone is a promising treatment for medulloblastoma in young children without metastases.
Unlike the severe, evolving multiple pituitary deficits after treatment of pituitary or central tumours in adults, these findings in children with posterior fossa tumours suggest that, with the exception of GH, neurotoxicity due to irradiation per se is associated with a low prevalence of anterior pituitary hormone deficiencies, even at a long follow-up. Since the children in this study were selected for assessment on the basis of growth failure, the high prevalence of GH insufficiency at first testing is to be expected; however, the early onset (within 1-3 years of irradiation) and permanence we have identified supports the view that GH is the most sensitive hormone to radiation injury.
The efficacy of immunotherapy with rIL-2 administered after intensive postremission treatment was not assessed as planned because of unexpected refusals by patients and/or their physicians to comply with protocol-directed therapy. Neither DFS nor OS was found to be significantly improved.
According to a pediatric-specific definition the prevalence of elevated jet velocity in this population of young patients with sickle cell disease was 11%. The study provides evidence for independent associations of elevated jet velocity with hemolysis and oxygen desaturation. Further investigations should address whether elevated jet velocity may indicate future complications and whether early intervention is beneficial.
Encouraging results have been obtained with rIL-2 therapy in AML patients with relapsed-refractory disease and limited blastosis and in patients in second CR. These results have prompted a large, multicenter, randomized study to evaluate the efficacy of high-dose rIL-2 therapy in AML patients with advanced disease but limited blastosis in relapse following cytoreductive chemotherapy or autologous transplantation.
Low-dose IL-2, with or without intermediate pulse dose therapy, given immediately after chemotherapy in first CR to elderly AML patients is well tolerated. Expression of NKG2D ligands by leukemic cells was detected in the majority of cases tested and should be assessed for correlation with response to IL-2 in future studies.
The sensitivity of PET/CT in detecting nodal metastasis in patients with adenocarcinoma is too low to avoid any further invasive staging procedure. Ultrasound-guided needle biopsy or mediastinoscopy is still necessary in staging patients undergoing lung resection for adenocarcinoma.
T-SUVmax is an independent predictor for survival in NSCLC patients undergoing surgery and might be helpful in guiding adjuvant treatment strategies. SUVmax of primary tumor normalized by SUV blood pool or SUV liver does not provide additional prognostic information.
The maxSUV of individual mediastinal lymph nodes is a predictor of malignancy. There is overlap between false and true positives. Definitive biopsies are required to prove cancer irrespective of the maxSUV value. However, when a maxSUV of 5.3 is used instead of the traditional value of 2.5, the accuracy for FDG-PET-CT for each N2 nodal station increases to at least 92%.
Despite integrated positron emission tomographic scanning and computed tomographic scanning, clinical staging remains relatively inaccurate for patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer. Recent studies suggest adjuvant therapy for stage Ib and II nonsmall cell lung cancer; thus the impact on preoperative care is to find unsuspected N2 disease. Unsuspected N2 disease is most common in posterior mediastinal lymph nodes inaccessible by mediastinoscopy. Thus one should consider endoscopic ultrasound fine-needle aspiration, especially for patients clinically staged as I and II, even if the nodes are negative on positron emission tomographic scanning and computed tomographic scanning.
Our experience would suggest that PET CT alone is not sufficiently accurate to replace mediastinoscopy and other conventional biopsy techniques in the evaluation of NSCLC cases. It may better be viewed as a valuable additional tool with which to inform decision making and to screen for disseminated disease.
PET-CT assessment of the mediastinum is associated with a clinically relevant false-positive rate. Our study confirms the need for pathologic confirmation of mediastinal lymph node abnormalities detected by PET-CT.
The use of PET-CT for preoperative staging of NSCLC reduced both the total number of thoracotomies and the number of futile thoracotomies but did not affect overall mortality. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The preoperative LNSGs for NSCLC proposed by the ESTS are effective.
Dual-time-point FDG PET/CT is more effective for mediastinal nodal staging than single-time-point in patients with pulmonary comorbidity. Dual-time-point scan was useful for diagnosis of mediastinal LN metastases in reducing the false-positive results in all patients, but improved specificity, accuracy, and PPV only in patients with pulmonary comorbidity.
EBUS-TBNA was an effective invasive method following PET/CT scanning in the mediastinal staging of potentially operable NSCLC. In mediastinal PET/CT scan-positive cases, EBUS-TBNA was an excellent tool for detecting mediastinal metastasis. Even in mediastinal PET/CT scan-negative cases, EBUS-TBNA can be useful for confirming mediastinal metastases, especially in adenocarcinoma.
We have shown that false-positivity of mediastinal lymph nodes had yielded worse survival in surgically staged or resected NSCLC patients staged with PET/CT. This result may help to allocate patients with potentially poor prognosis for considered additional therapy.
In patients with positive mediastinal lymph node uptake on PET/CT invasive mediastinal staging appears necessary for exact staging. Mediastinoscopy can be omitted in NSCLC patients with negative mediastinal uptake on PET/CT in regions where the rate of PET/CT positivity of mediastinal lymph nodes is high.
Integrated PET/CT provides high specificity and reasonably high accuracy, but somewhat low sensitivity for mediastinal nodal staging of NSCLCs. The high specificity is achieved at the expense of sensitivity by interpreting calcified nodes or nodes with high attenuation at CT, even with high FDG uptake at PET, as benign in a tuberculosis-endemic region.
SUVmax of a primary tumor is related to certain pathological characteristics, such as largest diameter, histology, and number of mitosis. A T/LN SUVmax ratio lower than 5 predicts the metastasis to lymph nodes with a high sensitivity.
Compared to node SUV alone, the use of node/aorta and node/liver SUV ratios resulted in improved detection of N2 metastases. The two SUV parameters may potentially improve the diagnostic accuracy of (18)F-FDG PET/CT for the diagnosis of N2 disease in patients with non-small-cell lung carcinoma.
Improvements in PET technology have increased integrated PET/CT sensitivity at the cost of significantly decreased specificity. Although it may appear that integrated PET/CT incurs fewer false negative results, the dramatic increase in false positive results reinforces the notion that integrated PET/CT should be used only as an adjunct to clinical staging and that surgical staging remains the gold standard in non-small cell lung cancer.
FDG-PET/CT adds little value to CT in the lymph node staging of T1 subsolid NSCLCs.
The combined endoscopic approach using EUS-FNA and EBUS-TBNA provided excellent diagnostic performance. Therefore, this approach is strongly recommended before surgery or mediastinoscopy to avoid futile thoracotomy and surgical intervention.
PET/CT showed a good ability to detect metastatic LNs, especially for N2 diagnosis. However, there were some limitations, especially in cases with elevated peripheral WBC count and/or smoking history.
PET/CT is superior to CT scan in lymph node staging. However, because the false-positive rate is high in PET-positive lymph nodes measuring less than 1 cm in diameter, we think that clinical background should be considered and other modalities or histological examinations should be undertaken if necessary. J. Med. Invest. 57: 305-313, August, 2010.
DWI has advantages over PET-CT in diagnosing malignant from benign lymph nodes of lung cancers.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging is superior to PET-CT in the detection of primary lesions and nodal assessment of non-small cell lung cancers.
Integrated PET-CT remains superior to CT in nodal staging of non-small cell lung cancer. However, in the presence of enlarged lymph nodes, PET-CT becomes less specific, less accurate but more sensitive in detecting metastatic spread to the lymph nodes. Interpretation of PET-CT findings in NSCLC patients with enlarged lymph nodes (>1cm) should be with caution as the specificity of PET-CT is lower and its ability to detect truly negative nodes become reduced. NSCLC patients with enlarged nodes by CT criteria who are PET-CT negative may require cervical mediastinoscopy to rule out metastatic spread to these nodes. Prospective studies are warranted.
Patients with non-small cell lung cancer who continue to smoke at the time of their fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomographic/computed tomographic scan have less accurate clinical staging compared with those who stopped 1 month before or who never smoked. As the pack-years increase, the accuracy for the N2 nodes decrease. Nonsmokers have the most accurate clinical staging.
Fusion PET/CT lacks sensitivity and specificity in identifying hilar nodal metastasis in patients with resected non-small cell lung cancer. Further prospective studies assessing the utility of PET/CT versus alternative sampling techniques are warranted.
Integrated PET-CT using FDG-18 better predicts stage I and II disease as well as the T and N status of patients with NSCLC when compared with dedicated PET alone. It is more accurate at some nodal stations but still only achieves an accuracy of 96% and 90% for the N2 and N1 nodes, respectively.
The ratio of the maxSUV of the mediastinal (N2) lymph node to the maxSUV of the primary tumor in patients with nonsmall-cell lung cancer predicts mediastinal nodal pathology across different PET centers. When the ratio is 0.56 or greater, there is a 94% chance that the node is malignant. The ratio may take into account the different techniques used at different centers.
Open lobectomy that affords palpation of the rest of the lung may discover nonimaged malignant pulmonary nodules in different lobes in 8% to 9% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer despite preoperative fine-cut chest computed tomographic scan with contrast and integrated integrated 2-deoxy-2-18F-fluoro-D-glucose positron emission tomography computed tomographic scanning. The clinical impact of these findings is unknown.
Composite results for non-invasive mediastinal staging (CT scan, PET-CT) showed 11% of FNs in cI stage (7.6% in non-central cIA and 14.8% in cIB). In tumours≤1 cm, NPV makes surgical staging unnecessary. In women with adenocarcinoma and non-central cIB, however, the high FN rate makes invasive staging necessary, particularly in pT2b to decrease the incidence of unexpected pN2 in thoracotomy.
Integrated PET/CT compared with PET alone was associated with 26% points-greater overall diagnostic accuracy (p = 0.01). The software fusion method failed to provide acceptable co-registration in > 30% of the patients.
Higher preoperative 18-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake by a tumour was significantly associated with an advanced pathological stage but not correlated with a poorer prognosis. An aggressive preoperative work-up for occult N2 disease should be emphasized, avoiding inappropriate thoracotomy.
We found that there were no significant differences in overall and disease-free survivals between the surgery N2 group and the mediastinoscopy N2 group. The benefit of neoadjuvant therapy in patients with PET/CT-negative but mediastinoscopy-positive N2 disease should be confirmed by randomized studies.
Integrated PET-CT improves the diagnostic accuracy of the staging of non-small-cell lung cancer.
By improving activity recovery, especially for nonenlarged nodes, PSF significantly improves the sensitivity, NPV, and negative LR of FDG-PET for nodal staging in non-small cell lung cancer. These data suggest that preoperative invasive nodal staging may be omitted in the case of a negative PSF FDG-PET/CT.
The maximum standardized uptake value is a predictor of individual lymph node metastasis in non-small cell lung cancer. Accuracy of integrated positron emission tomography/computed tomography is significantly improved by using a maximum standardized uptake value of 5.3 to assign malignancy, thereby dramatically decreasing the number of false-positive results. More importantly, these results suggest that some patients with non-small cell lung cancer with a maximum standardized uptake value less than 5.3 in their N2 lymph nodes might be able to forego mediastinoscopy and proceed directly to thoracotomy. This represents a significant change in the current management of standardized uptake value-positive mediastinal lymph nodes in non-small cell lung cancer.
EBUS-TBNA is a minimally invasive, highly effective and accurate, practical and safe procedure for diagnosis of PET-CT positive mediastinal lymph nodes.
PET/CT scan showed good accuracy in the preoperative diagnosis of mediastinal and hilar lymph node metastasis in the patients with NSCLC. We recommend that PET/CT scanning be used as a first-line evaluation tool for tumor diagnosis, therapy evaluation and follow-up.
Positron emission tomography with CT for the evaluation and follow-up of solitary pulmonary nodule and NSCLC can provide additional useful information to conventional radiology for treatment planning and a non-invasive determination of prognosis. However, physicians need to be aware of the limitations of this imaging modality, particularly when tuberculosis has a high prevalence in the population.
Extra-lung lesions demonstrated on ¹⁸F-FDG PET/CT improved the diagnostic accuracy of lung cancer. Tuberculosis was identified as the most important reason for false positive diagnoses after modification by extra-lung lesions.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging can be used in place of positron emission tomography-computed tomography for N staging of non-small cell lung cancer with fewer false-positive results compared with positron emission tomography-computed tomography.
Our data show that integrated PET/CT provides high sensitivity and positive predictive value in mediastinal nodal staging of NSCLC patients. Therefore, in patients with potentially resectable lung cancer, neoadjuvant chemotherapy candidate, mediastinoscopy could be reserved for restaging after induction therapy.
Either a solid tumor size or an SUVmax was a significant independent predictor of nodal involvement in clinical stage IA lung adenocarcinoma. The pathologic node-negative status criteria of a solid tumor size of less than 0.8 cm on HRCT or an SUVmax of less than 1.5 on FDG-PET/CT may be helpful for avoiding systematic lymphadenectomy for clinical stage IA lung adenocarcinoma, even in cases of T1b (2-3 cm) tumor.
Although both staging tools allowed greater than 20% correct upstaging compared with conventional staging methods, coregistered MRI-PET did not appear to help identify significantly more correctly upstaged patients than PET-CT plus brain MRI in patients with NSCLC.
First-line gefitinib for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer who were selected on the basis of EGFR mutations improved progression-free survival, with acceptable toxicity, as compared with standard chemotherapy. (UMIN-CTR number, C000000376.)
Since the last iteration of the staging guidelines, PET scanning has assumed a more prominent role both in its use prior to surgery and when evaluating for metastatic disease. Minimally invasive needle techniques to stage the mediastinum have become increasingly accepted and are the tests of first choice to confirm mediastinal disease in accessible lymph node stations. If negative, these needle techniques should be followed by surgical biopsy. All abnormal scans should be confirmed by tissue biopsy (by whatever method is available) to ensure accurate staging. Evidence suggests that more complete staging improves patient outcomes.
At 10 years, neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment continue to have equivalent OS and DFS. Good clinical response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy is associated with superior DFS and OS. This supports the use of clinical response of primary breast cancer to neoadjuvant therapy as a surrogate marker of survival benefit.
Despite the low number of the patients included in the trial, we were able to detect a significant improvement in treatment results with a combination of chemotherapy and radiation therapy given prior to mastectomy over those of local therapy alone with radiation therapy followed by mastectomy, for average- and high-risk patients with operable breast cancer.
Preoperative FLAC/granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor chemotherapy was effective against local/regional tumors in stage II breast cancer but was otherwise comparable to postoperative chemotherapy.
Early results of the study indicate no survival benefit with the inclusion of neo-adjuvant chemotherapy in LABC (T4b N0-2 M0). Neo-adjuvant chemotherapy resulted in significant down staging; good responders had a better DFS compared to those who did not respond.
RODEO breast MRI accurately estimates residual disease after induction chemotherapy. It assesses response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy better than traditional methods of physical examination or mammography. The information obtained from this MRI technique may be used as an objective tool during clinical trials, and to select patients better for breast conservation after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced disease.
Late breast recurrences were more frequently observed in younger patients treated with breast-conserving treatment compared with those submitted to mastectomy. These results require confirmation in other randomised studies so that younger patients with early breast cancer can receive adequate counselling and so that a more stringent long-term follow-up policy can be adopted when breast-conserving treatment is planned.
The long-term results of this trial of adjuvant combination chemotherapy confirm our preliminary observations of the effectiveness of the treatment in women with node-positive breast cancer.
Neoadjuvant VE is as effective as AC in early breast cancer and was better tolerated except for thrombophlebitis and neuropathy.
The findings validate earlier results showing no advantage from radical mastectomy. Although differences of a few percentage points cannot be excluded, the findings fail to show a significant survival advantage from removing occult positive nodes at the time of initial surgery or from radiation therapy.
After nearly 20 years of follow-up, there was no detectable difference in overall survival or disease-free survival in patients with early-stage breast carcinoma who were treated with MT compared with those treated with BCT. For BCT patients, long-term in-breast failures continued to occur throughout the duration of follow-up. There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of contralateral breast carcinoma between the two treatment groups.
BCT and mastectomy demonstrate similar survival rates in a trial in which the great majority of the patients had stage II breast cancer.
Primary chemotherapy can expand the indication for breast conservation to large tumors; careful attention, however, must be paid to surgical technique. The position of the tumor should be marked with tattoo points on the skin before chemotherapy. The macroscopic extent of the tumor regression must be evaluated carefully, and multiple frozen section biopsies may be needed. The margins of the resected breast should be evaluated microscopically. All microcalcifications present before treatment must be resected. The skin incision and mammary resection must fulfill criteria of radicality as well as good cosmetic outcome.
Patient satisfaction with the consultation was independent of patient expectation for informational or emotional support.
Susceptibility to vaccine-preventable diseases in transplanted patients is high. The acceptable response to vaccination justifies the development of specific programs. Given the special characteristics of this group of patients, vaccination programs must be simple and flexible.
Due to the interruptions in treatment caused by influenza infections, and economic benefits of the vaccine, we suggest that inactivated influenza vaccine should be applied as two doses annually in patients with solid tumor.
More than 3 times as many children were reported to be hospitalized in intensive care with influenza in California during the 2003-2004 season compared with the 2004-2005 season. Because children who are younger than 6 months remain at highest risk for severe influenza yet cannot currently be immunized, development and validation of preventive measures for them (eg, maternal immunization, breastfeeding, immunization of young infants and their close contacts) are urgently needed. ACIP's recent recommendation for influenza vaccination of children with conditions that can compromise respiratory function (eg, cognitive dysfunction, spinal cord injuries, seizure disorders, other neuromuscular disorders) is further supported by the frequency of underlying neurologic disease in these cases of severe influenza. A significant proportion of children with severe influenza in California, including children who are aged 2 to 4 years or have underlying genetic syndromes or prematurity, would not have been routinely recommended for influenza vaccination in 2005-2006 ACIP and AAP recommendations, calling into question whether such guidelines should be expanded. Continued surveillance for severe influenza-related morbidity and mortality is important to measure the impact of influenza on children.
Evaluating HPV loads after a positive cytology report may assist in triaging women post conization biopsy for CIN2-3 to appropriate treatment. Its high positive predictive value, specificity, and sensitivity for CIN1 and CIN2-3 and supplementary information could be especially pertinent for clinical management of low-grade SIL cases.
Adding HPV load assessment to the follow-up protocol of women postconization due to CIN2-3 lesions could help detect high-grade residual disease among low-grade lesions and normal cytology cases while concomitantly and safely bestowing the advantage of lowering the rates of colposcopic referrals and surgical procedures.
Most CIN2 > recurrences after LEEP occur in subjects with persistent HPV infection. Subjects with negative findings at cytology, colposcopy and HPV testing are at negligible risk of recurrence and might return safely to standard screening protocol.
These data suggest that posttreatment follow-up should include both the PAP test and HPV detection techniques for early detection of any patients at increased risk for disease recurrence and progression, because of persistent oncogenic HPV types.
PCR detection of HR-HPV in paired urine and cervical samples during follow-up revealed an excellent concordance, suggesting a potential equivalent role of the two methods within post-treatment follow-up. In our experience HPV testing on self-collected urine was more sensitive than cytology and more specific than cervical HPV detection to predict treatment failure. Larger studies are needed to definitively establish the role of urine-based HPV testing during follow-up.
The three analyzed surgical procedures are effective in eliminating high-risk HPV infection. HPV testing is useful at follow-up, since it can identify a small proportion of women requiring close surveillance and potential treatment.
With a detection limit of 5000 genomes/ml HPV DNA the hybrid capture II results revealed, that after electrosurgical removal of CIN in 94% of patients testing positive for high-risk HPV DNA prior to surgery were negative 12 months post-surgery.
Patients with persistent HPV infection after conization for CIN 3 should be especially closely followed because they are at increased risk of developing disease recurrence.
Both tests performed well in detecting residual or recurrent disease after LEEP and combination of the tests did not increase sensitivity of the single tests.
On the basis of the study results it is not possible to recommend the HPV test as the only method of detection of residual or recurrent CIN after conization.
HPV testing with Hybrid Capture II in conjunction with cytology can be used as a tool to select women with an increased risk for recurrent/residual CIN 2/3 and cervical cancer. The standard policy in The Netherlands is cytology at 6, 12, and 24 months posttreatment. However, for women with both normal cytology and negative HC II test at 6 months the chance to develop recurrent/residual CIN 2/3 and cervical carcinoma is so low that retesting at 12 months can be omitted.
Although able to reach a low recurrence rate of HG-CIN, laser CO2 conization does not remove HPV infection completely from the cervix with a case of persistence in every five treated patients. In our experience this persistence in itself represents an independent risk factor for developing relapsing disease and constitutes the basis to introduce HPV testing even in the follow-up of patients treated for HG-CIN by laser CO2 conization.
This review indicates that the hrHPV test should be included in post-treatment testing 6months after treatment, because hrHPV testing has a higher sensitivity than cytology in detecting high-grade post-treatment disease and has a similar specificity.
In patients aged 50 years or older, the yield of bone scintigraphy for identification of occult malignancy (29/310; 9%) is sufficient to justify its use in the investigation of the cause of problematic bone or musculoskeletal symptoms.
SPECT of the spine improved the diagnostic accuracy of bone scans when added to a planar scan in patients with known malignancy and clinical suspicion of spinal metastases when the planar scan was borderline abnormal. It helps in differentiating between benign and malignant lesions of the spine.
Evaluation of research depends on complete and accurate reporting. If medical journals adopt the checklist and the flow diagram, the quality of reporting of studies of diagnostic accuracy should improve to the advantage of the clinicians, researchers, reviewers, journals, and the public.
The data suggest a diagnostic strategy similar to the 1994 Agency for Health Care Policy and Research guidelines. For adults younger than 50 years of age with no signs or symptoms of systemic disease, symptomatic therapy without imaging is appropriate. For patients 50 years of age and older or those whose findings suggest systemic disease, plain radiography and simple laboratory tests can almost completely rule out underlying systemic diseases. Advanced imaging should be reserved for patients who are considering surgery or those in whom systemic disease is strongly suspected.
We recommend a strategy of imaging patients who have a clinical finding (history of cancer, age > or = 50 years, weight loss, or failure to improve with conservative therapy) in combination with either an elevated ESR (> 50 mm/hr) or a positive x-ray, or using the same approach but imaging directly those patients with a history of cancer.
The quality of reporting of diagnostic accuracy studies has improved slightly over time, without a more pronounced effect in journals that adopted the STARD statement. As there is still room for improvement, editors should mention the use of the STARD statement as a requirement in their guidelines for authors, and instruct reviewers to check the STARD items. Authors should include a flow diagram in their manuscript.
Locally invasive pancreatic cancer without distant metastases and major arterial invasion appears to be best treated by surgical resection.
Mono-bloc spleno-pancreaticoduodenectomy and regional vascular resection and reconstruction, with adjuvant locoregional chemoimmunotherapy leads to substantial prolongation of survival and optimization of quality of life.
The treatment regimen employed was well tolerated and did not contribute to any clinical deterioration. Adjuvant targeted locoregional chemoimmunotherapy is therefore a promising avenue in the management of patients with pancreatic carcinoma.
With careful patient selection, PTFE graft reconstruction of resected PV/SMV during pancreaticoduodenectomy is possible with minimal risk of hepatic necrosis or graft infection. Comparison studies to primary anastomosis and autologous vein reconstruction are necessary.
As compared with gemcitabine, FOLFIRINOX was associated with a survival advantage and had increased toxicity. FOLFIRINOX is an option for the treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer and good performance status. (Funded by the French government and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
AR in patients undergoing pancreatectomy for pancreatic cancer is associated with a poor short and long-term outcome. Pancreatectomy with AR may, however, be justified in highly selected patients owing to the potential survival benefit compared with patients without resection. These patients should be treated within the bounds of clinical trials to assess outcomes after AR in the era of modern pancreatic surgery and multimodal therapy.
These results support the efficacy and safety of a multi-step sequential treatment in patients with locally advanced, inoperable or incompletely resected Pa and Bt ADKs.
On analysis of these data and the published literature, we conclude that surgical bypass represents an effective method of palliation for patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Patients need to be carefully selected with regard to both operative risk and perceived overall survival.
This is the largest collective report to date on portal-superior mesenteric vein resection in pancreatectomy. The high rate of nodal metastases and low 5-year survival rates suggest that by the time of tumour involvement of the portal vein cure is unlikely, even with radical resection.
Because of the higher surgery-related morbidity and mortality and lack of survival benefit in cases of advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, intentionally incomplete palliative resection is not advisable.
Pancreatectomy combined with VR resection for pancreatic cancer is justified because it can result in good perioperative outcome and long-term survival comparable to that obtained with standard resection. Owing to the selection bias and low level of clinical evidence available so far, the results should be interpreted with caution.
Lenalidomide can reduce transfusion requirements and reverse cytologic and cytogenetic abnormalities in patients who have the myelodysplastic syndrome with the 5q31 deletion. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00065156 [ClinicalTrials.gov].).
Thrombocytopenia is a strong predictor of short survival, with or without haemorrhagic complications.
The safety and efficacy profiles of romiplostim in this study suggested that weekly subcutaneous administration of 750 μg romiplostim is an appropriate starting dose for future clinical studies in patients with MDS and thrombocytopenia.
Microwave coagulation therapy is suggested to be equally effective as hepatic resection in the treatment of multiple (two to nine) hepatic metastases from colorectal carcinoma, whereas its surgical invasiveness is less than that of hepatic resection.
Thermal ablation gives good local control of small HCC, is superior to ethanol, and may be comparable to surgical resection in long-term outcome.
This is the first study to report ESAS and PPS scores in a large, geographically based cohort with a full scope of cancer diagnoses, including patients seen earlier in the cancer trajectory (ie, treated for cure). In this ambulatory cancer population, the high prevalence of numerous symptoms parallels those reported in palliative populations and represents a target for improved clinical care. Differences in outcomes for subgroups require further investigation. This research sets the groundwork for future research on patient and provider outcomes using linked administrative healthcare data.
Dyspnea is common 1 to 6 years after lung cancer resection, and is associated with the presence of preoperative dyspnea, reduced diffusing capacity, clinically significant depression symptoms, and lack of physical activity. Further research is needed to test whether strategies that identify and treat patients with these conditions attenuate dyspnea among lung cancer survivors.
We found that dyspnea is strongly correlated with patient satisfaction with QoL in advanced cancer. Future studies should evaluate the impact of integrative cancer care services on patient satisfaction with QoL.
We replicated the results of our previous clinical trial of a chronic disease self-management program in a "real-world" setting. One year after exposure to the program, most patients experienced statistically significant improvements in a variety of health outcomes and had fewer ED visits.
Although there were numerous technical challenges with the eDSMP, both dyspnea self-management programs were effective in reducing dyspnea with ADL in the short term. Our findings will need to be confirmed in a larger randomized trial with more mature Web and personal digital assistant tools, use of a control group, and longer follow-up.
Systemic opioids, administered orally or parenterally, can be used to manage dyspnea in cancer patients. Oral promethazine may also be used, as a second-line agent if systemic opioids cannot be used or in addition to systemic opioids. Nebulized morphine, prochlorperazine, and benzodiazepines are not recommended for the treatment of dyspnea, and promethazine must not be used parenterally.
Self-management education programs resulted in small to moderate effects for selected chronic diseases. In light of evidence of publication bias, further trials that adhere to a standard methodology would help clarify whether self-management education is worthwhile.
Laparoscopic radical nephrectomy can be performed efficiently and effectively with the transperitoneal or the retroperitoneal approach. While renal hilar control and total operative time may be quicker with retroperitoneoscopy, the approaches are similar in terms of other patient outcomes evaluated.
In our series the hand assisted approach had significantly shorter operative time than the transperitoneal or retroperitoneal approach but it had the greatest risk of hernia formation. The transperitoneal approach was associated with a significantly shorter hospital stay and the earliest resumption of normal activity.
This first prospective randomized study comparing LRN and RRN did not find any real difference between the two approaches in relation to patient morbidity or the technical difficulty for the surgeon.
Both LRN and HALRN can be performed safely in patients with significant comorbid conditions. Careful preoperative preparation, intraoperative monitoring, and awareness of laparoscopy-induced oliguria can preclude inadvertent overhydration, hemodilution, and congestive heart failure. Both LRN and HALRN result in less pain medication requirement and faster return to oral intake than ORN, and LRN results in fewer perioperative complications than HALRN or ORN in patients at high perioperative risk. The LRN technique has a 21% lower total cost than both HALRN and ORN.
Although the sample size is small, it appears that the tumor control and surgical time in laparoscopic nephrectomy are not significantly influenced by the approach.
Introducing a robotic interface for laparoscopic partial/wedge resection allowed a fellowship-trained urologic oncologist with limited reconstructive laparoscopic experience to achieve results comparable to those for laparoscopic partial/wedge resection performed by experienced laparoscopic surgeons. In this regard, the learning curve appears truncated, similar to that with robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy.
RPNx for large RCC in stage cT2 or cT3a is a safe and efficacious procedure with good short-term outcome results and significantly shorter recovery of QoL variables.
Our data show no significant difference in graft function between LAP and OD. LAP and HAL were safe and complications were minimal. The main difference was that patients treated with LAP and HAL returned to normal physical activity and work significantly earlier than those who underwent OD.
Retroperitoneoscopic nephron-sparing surgery of small renal tumors using a microwave tissue coagulator without renal ischemia is feasible as minimally invasive procedure. It results in saving renal function, minimal blood loss, and rapid recovery.
Open surgical partial nephrectomy remains the established standard for nephron sparing treatment of renal tumors. When applied to small renal tumors, the laparoscopic approach is associated with longer warm renal ischemia time, more major intraoperative complications and more postoperative urological complications. Our data also suggest that more deliberate efforts to achieve a wider surgical margin are necessary with the laparoscopic approach. Nevertheless, our data suggest that laparoscopic NSS is emerging as an effective, minimally invasive therapeutic approach with respect to renal functional outcome with the additional advantages of decreased postoperative narcotic use, earlier hospital discharge and a more rapid convalescence. Continued efforts are required to develop laparoscopic renal hypothermia techniques and facilitate intrarenal suturing, while minimizing warm ischemia time.
Early experience with laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is promising. Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy offered the advantages of less operative time, decreased operative blood loss and a shorter hospital stay. When applied to patients with a single renal tumor 7 cm or less, laparoscopic partial nephrectomy was associated with additional postoperative morbidity compared to open partial nephrectomy. However, equivalent functional and early oncological outcomes were achieved.
Laparoscopic radical nephrectomy for clinical stage T2 renal tumors is effective with the advantages of less blood loss, shorter hospital stay, decreased analgesic requirement and rapid recovery compared with open radical nephrectomy. Long-term results are also similar in the 2 groups of patients. Laparoscopic radical nephrectomy for large tumors is a technically difficult, challenging procedure and it should be attempted by surgeons with significant experience.
LPN for hilar tumors is a reasonable surgical option but carries an increased risk of urine leak. LC for hilar tumors has a shorter operative time and results in significantly fewer postoperative complications. Long-term follow-up data for both techniques remain unavailable.
Based on a metaanalysis, when ablating renal tumors, a percutaneous approach was safer than an open or laparoscopic approach and was equally effective. However, more than one procedure was needed to treat the tumor completely.
Laparoscopic nephrectomy results in less blood loss, fewer hospital days, fewer complications, and more rapid recovery than open surgery. We believe that these benefits outweigh the higher hospital charges associated with the laparoscopic approach.
The RP approach reduces operative time, LOS, and some types of complications without compromising the quality of tumor resection. Complications in the retroperitoneal space are not associated with higher EBL. Anatomic considerations and surgeon experience may improve outcomes.
LPN is associated with similar postoperative convalescence and complications compared with LRN. The increase in serum creatinine noted in patients undergoing radical extirpation supports the use of LPN when clinically indicated.
This retrospective study of patients with unilateral RCC and a normal contralateral kidney suggests that NSS is as effective as RN for the treatment of RCC on long-term follow-up. The increased risk of chronic renal insufficiency and proteinuria after RN supports use of NSS.
Both LPN and LCA are viable options for patients with multiple ipsilateral renal tumors in select patients. Renal functional outcomes, complication rates, and intermediate-term survival rates are comparable between the two groups in this small series.
This model defines and simplifies a series of complex cost relations between the options for nephron-sparing surgery.
HAL nephrectomy is feasible in almost all nephrectomies and is a safe, reproducible, and minimally invasive technique to perform extirpable renal surgery. HAL offer clear advantages over traditional open surgery, including decreased blood loss and hospital stay.
Open nephron sparing surgery and laparoscopic radical nephrectomy are relatively recent and significant developments for treating patients with renal cell carcinoma and they represent accepted standards of care in those with a small renal mass and normal contralateral kidney. In patients presenting with a sporadic solitary renal tumor of 4 cm. or less and a normal contralateral kidney the significant short-term and intermediate term benefits of the laparoscopic approach must be weighed against the long-term advantage of better renal function associated with open nephron sparing surgery. The distinct advantages of these 2 approaches may ultimately be realized with the standardization of laparoscopic partial nephrectomy.
Despite the longer operative time, HALRN represents an effective, safe, and less-invasive treatment option for RCC. If performed for the proper indications, HALRN could achieve cancer control similar to that available with ORN.
Hand assisted laparoscopic radical nephrectomy offers recovery, morbidity and cost that are comparable to those of standard laparoscopy. The benefits of the technique include shorter operative times, no need for specimen morcellation and direct manual control of the operative field. It is particularly useful early in surgeon experience, for large specimens or when patient co-morbidities require a rapid procedure.
Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is an alternative technique with mid-range oncological results comparable to open partial nephrectomy in patients with localized pathological stage T1N0M0 renal cell carcinoma.
In this study we further confirmed the efficiency of resectioning lesions using laparoscopy. In our experience there is no difference between the 2 procedures in terms of efficient surgical margins. However, despite these encouraging results it is necessary to obtain more extensive followup data, which will allow us to be more specific in reporting on laparoscopic margin quality.
LPN offers early functional advantages over OPN in terms of earlier resumption of diet and slightly earlier discharge. However, the two groups of patients were clearly not evenly matched for size nor pathological subtypes, with larger, malignant subtypes more predominant in the OPN group. These results suggest that while LPN is a safe, effective treatment for small renal tumours, obligatory partial nephrectomy or large tumours continue to be performed using open techniques with good results.
This initial 3-year actuarial analysis showed that RFA for cT1a renal tumours has comparable oncological outcomes to PN; however, longer term data are still needed.
This study demonstrated that elective NSS can be performed with equivalent direct hospital costs and LOS when compared with patients undergoing radical nephrectomy for small solitary RCCs. These data have significant economic implications for the comparison of competing surgical treatment strategies for localized RCC.
Based on tumor location as the selection criteria the retroperitoneal approach was associated with shorter operative time, less blood loss, more rapid return of bowel function and shorter hospitalization compared with those in patients selected for the transperitoneal technique. Based on our experience we believe that the decision on the approach should be based on the tumor location on the kidney surface. For polar or posterolateral masses the retroperitoneal approach is preferred. The transperitoneal approach is best suited to anterior and medial lesions.
Retroperitoneal laparoscopic nephrectomy for kidney cancer requires further assessment. It seems to have several advantages over open radical nephrectomy, and to be effective and safe for less than 50 cm. renal tumors but a risk of spillage cannot be ruled out for larger tumors.
Laparoscopic radical nephrectomy, although technically demanding, is a viable alternative for managing localized renal tumors up to 10 cm. It affords patients with renal tumors an improved postoperative course with less pain and a quicker recovery while providing similar efficacy at 2-year followup for patients with T1 and T2 tumors.
There was no significant difference in stage at presentation of renal cancer diagnosed in 1973 to 1985 compared with that diagnosed in 1986 to 1998. While the lack of a decrease in distant disease despite the increased detection of regional and localized renal cancer implies that a proportion of innocuous renal cancer cases may be detected by increased abdominal imaging, the increased incidence of renal cancer in all 3 categories indicates that other factors may also be contributing to the increasing incidence of renal cancer.
Our results show that patients who undergo laparoscopic renal surgery may have an overall major complication rate of 9.5%. The highest major complication rate is associated with technically challenging LPN (21%). There appears to be a significantly higher wound complication rate associated with HA surgery in comparison to that of standard laparoscopy (1.9% vs 0.2%, p <0.05).
Mild-to-moderate subclinical glomerular and tubular damage can be identified in many childhood cancer survivors. However, most patients experience some spontaneous recovery from acute nephrotoxicity.
The risk of ESRD is remarkably low for the majority of patients with Wilms tumor. However, those with WAGR or associated GU anomalies are at higher risk and should be screened indefinitely to facilitate prospective treatment of impaired renal function.
In children with unilateral renal tumors nephron sparing surgery minimizes the decrease in renal function following renal ablative surgery, and may be of benefit in children with a progressive renal function decrease, probably due to a congenitally reduced nephron complement.
These results confirm that renal salvage procedures, in combination with chemotherapy, are a safe and effective way of treating children with bilateral Wilms' disease. In addition, renal salvage surgery can maintain satisfactory renal function in the majority of these patients without an increased risk of local recurrence. When transplantation is required, the remaining native kidney should be removed to prevent tumor recurrence.
Late complications occur frequently in survivors of advanced stage NB. The majority of these problems are of mild-moderate severity. Long-term follow-up (LFTU) and screening of this population is essential.
Late effects of therapy were seen in more than two thirds of children treated for Wilms' tumor. Children treated with lower doses (<2400 cGy) had a lower incidence of scoliosis compared with those who received more than 2400 cGy. There is also a suggestion that the incidence is lower in patients who received 1000-1200 cGy. Severe physical and functional deformity from RT was uncommon.
Ifosfamide-induced renal tubular damage is a potentially progressive disease. Along with measurement of phosphate reabsorption, additional assessment of tubular amino acid handling is suggested, because it allows early discrimination of poor from favorable renal outcomes.
EBS survivors have poorer health status compared to age- and gender-matched controls. Long-term follow-up of these patients is therefore mandatory.
The lack of clinically significant renal abnormalities observed in patients who received combination chemotherapy with ifosfamide and cisplatin for osteosarcoma is encouraging for future osteosarcoma protocol development.
Our results indicate the importance of clinical screening for risk factors: In this case, a BED <28 Gy is recommended. Fractionation of therapy is important in order to decrease toxicity, and further studies are needed to evaluate its clinical impact.
Total-body irradiation administered with 24 MV photons increases the dose deposition in bone marrow through pair production and backscatter interactions occurring in bone. Because percent depth dose increases with SSD, the 24 MV beam is more penetrating at a 400 cm distance than at 100 cm and dose homogeneity is improved with higher energies. Thus, the incidence of radiation-mediated injury to lung, liver, and kidney is reduced. This is an effective preparatory regimen for patients with high-risk leukemias requiring bone marrow transplantation.
Radical nephrectomy via transperitoneal route, with benefits of early ligating the renal vessels and easy to perform lymphadenectomy, has certain effect on RCC with less severe complications. It may be a standard surgical procedure for RCC.
Despite reductions in the use of cranial radiotherapy, contemporary childhood survivors of ALL remain at an increased risk of obesity and hypertension at least several years after the completion of treatment, with those exposed to higher doses of corticosteroids at greater risk.
There is a trend in favor of captopril in mitigation of chronic renal failure after radiation-based HSCT.
In 1994, available data suggest that very cautious attempts could be made to adapt total body irradiation schedules to the potential normal tissue toxicity, T-cell depletion, and to the type of leukemia.
The results confirm that carboplatin has similar activity to cisplatin in otherwise similar regimens. Five-year survival data are comparable to those reported in other recent studies, including high-dose chemotherapy studies. Of note is the marked activity in CPCA and gross totally resected EP.
Intraoperative radiotherapy at the time of primary resection offers effective local control in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. Compared with historical controls, IORT achieved comparable control and survival rates while avoiding many side effects associated with external beam radiotherapy in young children. Although complications were observed, additional analysis is needed to determine the relative contributions of the disease process and specific components of the multimodality treatment to these adverse events.
Children, especially females with ACC present with large advanced-staged tumors. Surgically negative margins with or without en bloc resection improves survival. The high percentage of children with functioning tumors suggests earlier detection is possible.
Monitoring and adjusting caffeine levels were achieved without apparent loss of chemotherapeutic efficacy.
For long term survivors of brain cancer, the risk for CVD is strongly increased due to dyslipidemia, central obesity, and elevated systolic blood pressure, particularly for those with GHD. The first effects of this increased risk for CVD were observed in the carotic bulb, as assessed by IMT measurements. Efforts should be directed at CVD prevention by risk factor control.
A cold ischemia time of >44 minutes appears to be a threshold influencing the new onset of late-stage CKD; however, it was not a significant factor on multivariate analysis. Thus, renal hypothermia appears to prevent the deterioration of renal function long term after surgery for patients undergoing a longer ischemia time.
PCs are rare but should be included within the differential diagnosis of a neck lump. True PCs are non-functional. Pathological and immunohistochemical findings are suggestive of a branchial origin. Fine-needle aspiration may be curative and is diagnostic due to the characteristic appearance of the fluid and high PTH levels on assay.
Some relevant impairments are noted in the first year after antineoplastic therapy. We expect to detect more major late sequelae in our prospective study during the increasing posttherapeutic interval. Our pilot study shows the feasibility of the methodology.
Growth, renal, and cardiac functions were similar in the two groups. The need for estrogen supplementation was more frequent following BMT. Recommendations concerning therapy for AML should depend on the probability of cure.
Although long-term survival remains to be determined, the ICE combination appears to be effective against recurrent Wilms' tumor without endangering the patients' single remaining kidney. Myelotoxicity can be ameliorated by administering growth factors. We suggest that ICE chemotherapy be considered for the primary treatment of high-risk patients with Wilms' tumor.
Children and adults receiving >20 g/m(2) of ifosfamide have similar susceptibility to ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity. Factors other than age and cumulative dose should be considered for understanding the inter-individual variation in nephrotoxicity.
Veno-occlusive disease, which developed in 54% of bone marrow transplant recipients, is frequently associated with renal and cardiopulmonary failure. Pretransplant transaminase elevations, use of high-dose cytoreductive therapy, and persistent fever during cytoreductive therapy are independent predictors of severe VOD.
In this study, patients with advanced stage NPC had a good prognosis with treatment consisting of neoadjuvant cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil, radiotherapy, and adjuvant IFN-beta. It is particularly noteworthy that distant metastases did not develop.
This study shows that NU has a profound effect on future estimated GFR, an effect that is further compounded in those with risk factors for renal impairment. This study therefore provides both the patient and the urologist with an idea of potential future renal function after NU and contributes greatly to preoperative counselling.
This case suggests that cisplatin should be added to the list of agents causing hypokalemic paralysis. Regular serum electrolyte measurement, the early detection of cation deficiency, and appropriate replacement of cations are all recommended.
A population pharmacokinetic model for melphalan has been developed and validated and may now be used in conjunction with pharmacodynamic data to develop safe and effective dosing guidelines in children with malignant diseases.
Hypertension was not related to the cause of renal absence nor the pathology of remnant kidney. Ccr was higher than normal, showing an hyperfiltration status, not confirmed by the values of isotopic filtrate. Renal volume reached by the single kidney was affected by the time after the renal loss, and apparently has been slowed down in cases with contralateral anomalies.
Young adult survivors of childhood ALL, especially those treated with CRT, are at risk for obesity and dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. Further investigation of these risks is warranted.
The patients treated with PVB were physically and socially well-being at follow-up investigation 11-15 years after treatment. Improvements in pulmonary- and renal function, and recovery from neurotoxicity was seen during the long-term follow-up period. Gonadal toxicity was severe and persistent.
Elevated BP is common among brain tumor patients treated in childhood. After cisplatin treatment renal glomerular dysfunction appears mostly to be permanent. Persistent and even progressive changes in renal tubular function are seen.
Obesity/overweight, dyslipidemia, hypertension, metabolic syndrome, and hyperuricemia were common in young childhood brain tumor survivors. Cranial irradiation, hypothalamic/hypophyseal damage, growth hormone deficiency, and/or impaired mobility were associated with higher risk for obesity and metabolic changes among these patients.
This study shows that TACE using DEB is a safe and effective treatment for HCC, supporting a phase III randomized trial to compare this novel treatment with conventional TACE using doxorubicin-Lipiodol emulsion.
Patients who are < 3 years of age who receive more than eight courses (> 72 g/m2) of ifosfamide and who have a preexisting renal abnormality have an increased risk of RTD and DGF. The renal function of patients being considered for ifosfamide treatment must be carefully monitored. Ifosfamide should be avoided in patients with renal abnormalities at diagnosis unless the potential benefit clearly exceeds the risk of further renal impairment.
This long-term followup study demonstrates that a single remnant human kidney continues to function normally for more than 20 years. The prolonged increased workload does not interfere with normal development and maturation. The renal reserve capacity decreased significantly during the years may, however, indicate a vulnerability of the single kidney and raises the possibility of renal functional impairment with much longer followup.
RAE is a safe and effective therapeutic tool for many urological, renal and vascular conditions. Its use has increased at our institution due to improved techniques, embolization materials, and our increasing use of RAE as an adjuvant procedure for patients requiring nephrectomy with or without IVC thrombectomy. There are many potential operative advantages for patients having RAE before surgery, with minimal morbidity. It is likely that the lack of prospective randomized trials is the primary reason why it is underutilized in the preoperative setting.
Adaptive hyperfunction occurs soon after nephrectomy that is not associated with age or sex and continues for at least 1 year. A greater compensatory response is produced in patients with more severe renal deterioration. Using 99mTc-MAG3 scintigraphy, we may be able to predict postoperative renal function.
We have primarily selected radical nephrectomy for cases exhibiting smaller renal tumors with a normal contralateral kidney. We encourage nephron-sparing surgery where possible in patients displaying risk factors, including a high degree of proteinuria, hypertension, or diabetes mellitus.
Carboplatin can successfully substitute for cisplatin during the treatment of pediatric germ cell tumors without sacrificing response or survival. Long-term effects, especially nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity, were rare or mild among the small number of patients evaluated. Carboplatin appears to be a safe and efficacious alternative in the treatment of germ cell tumors, and should be considered as primary therapy for pediatric patients.
Young survivors of childhood ALL, especially those treated with cranial irradiation, are at risk for obesity, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, hypertension, and the full DS early after the completion of therapy.
Prolonged warm ischemia, increased intraoperative blood loss and solitary kidney status increase the likelihood of postoperative complications after laparoscopic partial nephrectomy. With experience the incidence of complications has decreased significantly despite a significant increase in tumor and procedural complexity.
Original sites of disease are at the highest risk for relapse, but the entire neuraxis remains at significant risk, despite combined-modality treatment. M-Stage was prognostic for spine/CSF relapse as well as PFS and may be an important tool in guiding therapy. A more aggressive approach to local control in the neuraxis is warranted, especially in M+ patients.
Although renal growth in a solitary kidney is accelerated in most children after unilateral nephrectomy for Wilms' tumor, the sonographic length of the solitary kidney will be larger than normal in only half of the patients.
Despite the warm ischemia and longer operative times, LPN preserves the kidney function better than LRN. In properly selected patients, LPN should be preferentially performed to prevent chronic renal insufficiency.
HCV-infected persons are younger and have lower lipid levels and a lower prevalence of hypertension. Despite a favorable risk profile, HCV infection is associated with a higher risk of CAD after adjustment for traditional risk factors.
Doxorubicin and a dose above 45 mg/m2 within 1 week seemed to increase the frequency of A-CHF. Well designed and executed studies are needed to accurately estimate the frequency of A-CHF and reliably assess the importance of potential risk factors.
These findings confirm a higher risk for AE, especially serious type 1 reactions, with ID therapy than with newer intravenous iron products and also suggest that IS carries the lowest risk for hypersensitivity reactions.
Parenteral iron-related ADEs are rare. Using observational data, overall and most specific ADE rates were significantly higher among recipients of higher molecular weight iron dextran and sodium ferric gluconate complex than among recipients of lower molecular weight iron dextran. These data may help to guide clinical practice, as head-to-head clinical trials comparing different formulations of intravenous iron have not been conducted.
The frequency of intravenous iron-related ADEs reported to the FDA has decreased, and overall, the rates are extremely low. This is the fourth report suggesting increased risks associated with the provision of higher molecular weight iron dextran. Life-threatening and other ADEs appear to be lower with the use of non-dextran iron formulations, although the cost per ADE prevented is extremely high.
Treatment with darbepoetin-alpha at a dose of 200 mug every 2 weeks is associated with improvement in symptom burden as measured by the MDASI, a simple tool that may improve symptom management for cancer patients with CIA.
r-HuEPO is safe and can cause a significant improvement in the hematocrit and quality of life of anemic cancer patients receiving myelosuppressive, cisplatin-based chemotherapy. After 1 month of r-HuEPO, there is also a reduction in transfusion requirement.
Total dose intravenous infusion of iron dextran, when appropriately used, is a safe and potentially efficacious treatment for children with inflammatory bowel disease and iron deficiency anemia who are unresponsive to or noncompliant with oral iron therapy.
Chemotherapy-related anemia is associated with impairment of functional status and cognitive functions. In elderly cancer patients anemia correction or maintenance could be useful to preserve functional independency and protect from mental decay. However, the study results need to be confirmed on a larger series of patients within a controlled clinical trial.
Iron stores should be assessed in all patients with cancer- or treatment-related anemia and parenteral iron should be administered to patients receiving ESA therapy to improve hematopoietic response. A unique algorithm that summarizes our institutional guidelines to assess iron stores and administer parenteral iron with ESA therapy in patients with CIA is included.
Several lines of research are needed to bridge the specific gaps in the current knowledge of CRF. These involve the pathophysiology of the symptom, the validation of diagnostic criteria, and specific therapeutic interventions. Current practice guidelines are based on a combination of research and expert clinical judgment and should be used to guide care with the expectation that they will evolve to incorporate the results of studies currently underway.
Within this selected group of patients we found that (a) rehabilitation is effective in reducing fatigue, (b) both physical and psychological parameters predicted different dimensions of fatigue at baseline, and (c) change in fatigue was mainly associated with change in physical parameters.
Radical prostatectomy is an operation which can be routinely performed by laparoscopy by a team experienced with this technique. Operative and postoperative morbidity was low. Short-term oncological data appear identical to the results of conventional retropubic surgery. The improvement of operative visibility was considerable allowing a much more precise dissection. The laparoscopic approach appears to represent a technical improvement of the radical prostatectomy if the functional results of this operation improve parallel to the quality of dissection. A long-term follow-up is needed to define definitively the place of this new approach to radical prostatectomy.
The knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU guidelines on PCa summarise the most recent findings and put them into clinical practice.
The publications reviewed revealed DVSS to offer certain advantages with respect to Heller myotomy, gastrectomy, and cholecystectomy. However, these results should be interpreted with caution until randomized clinical trials are performed and, with respect to oncologic indications, studies include variables such as survival.
Our results suggest that, compared with retropubic prostatectomy, laparoscopic and robotic-assisted prostatectomy are associated with decreased operative blood loss, decreased risk of transfusion, and similar risk of positive surgical margin. Further comparative studies-using consistent, validated outcomes measures-are needed to further assess postoperative urinary continence and potency.
Laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is feasible but currently offers no advantage over open surgery with regard to tumor removal, continence, potency, length of stay, convalescence, and cosmetic result.
Major gaps exist in empirical evidence regarding which nursing interventions might be helpful in preventing or controlling healthcare-associated infections in neutropenic patients.
The role of diet in the development of infection in patients with neutropenia is unclear. This unclear role contributes to the variation in dietary restrictions among institutions.
The results demonstrate the reliability and validity of the PedsQL Generic Core Scales, Multidimensional Fatigue Scale, and Cancer Module in pediatric cancer. The PedsQL may be utilized as an outcome measure in clinical trials, research, and clinical practice.
Hyperfractionation and accelerated fractionation with concomitant boost are more efficacious than standard fractionation for locally advanced head and neck cancer. Acute but not late effects are also increased.
Concomitant boost is a therapeutically superior and logistically feasible accelerated radiotherapy regimen in advanced head and neck cancers, especially in the setting of a developing country.
These results do not represent clinical evidence strong enough to demonstrate that individual differences in sensitivity influence the response of tumors to radiation.
This trial shows that accelerated radiotherapy improves loco-regional control in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas. A less toxic scheme should, however, be investigated and documented before using accelerated radiotherapy as a standard regimen of curative radiotherapy for head and neck cancers.
The results obtained with the combination of CT and RT compared with RT alone did not reach statistical significance, but combined treatment almost doubled the five-year overall survival, relapse-free survival and locoregional control rate. Patients with advanced squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx who are medically suitable for the combined approach should be treated with a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The occurrence of second tumors is relatively common in these patients and may contribute substantially to the causes of death.
The combination of simultaneous CT and RT with the regimen of this trial is better than RT alone in advanced oropharyngeal squamous-cell carcinomas, by increasing disease-free survival. This improvement, however, did not translate into an overall survival improvement, and was associated with a higher incidence of acute morbidity.
Differences in DFS, disease-specific survival and loco-regional control have not been demonstrated. ART resulted in more acute mucosal toxicity, but this did not result in greater prolongation of the treatment time compared with the CRT arm. There were less late effects in the ART arm, with the exception of late mucosal effects. This trial has confirmed that tumour cell repopulation occurs during conventionally fractionated radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. However, it has also provided additional evidence that overall improvements in the therapeutic ratio using accelerated fractionation strategies are seriously constrained by the need to limit total doses to levels that do not exceed acute mucosal tolerance. The accelerated schedule tested has been shown in this trial to be an acceptable alternative to conventionally fractionated irradiation to 70 Gy.
The gain in tumour control is likely the effect of shortening of overall treatment time by 14 days and regular continuous dose delivery during the whole course of radiation therapy including weekends. A 7-day schedule produces more severe acute mucosal reactions lasting longer than in conventional fractionation, however tolerable by patients. Relatively high rate (22%) of CLE in the 7-day arm observed during the first year of the study was eliminated by decreasing dose per fraction from 2.0 Gy to 1.8 Gy.
Selected head-and-neck cancer patients could be treated very effectively with 7-days-a-week radiation schedule with no compromise of total dose and with slight 10% reduction of fraction dose (2 Gy-1.8 Gy), which article gives 1 week reduction of overall treatment time compared with standard 70 Gy in 35 fractions over 47-49 days. Although this report is based on the relatively small group of patients, its results have encouraged us to use CAIR fractionation in a standard radiation treatment for moderately advanced head-and-neck cancer patients.
Despite the reduction in total dose from 66 Gy to 54 Gy, control of locoregional disease and survival with CHART were similar to those with CRT. These findings, together with the low incidence of long-term severe adverse events, suggest that CHART is a treatment option for patients with low-risk disease and for those unable to withstand the toxicity of concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
HF delivered in 4 weeks permits enhanced RT doses achieving improved tumor control, without increased late toxicity, compared to daily fractionated radiotherapy in the same overall time.
It is suggested that the ability to accelerate repopulation may be lost by dedifferentiation, and that prolongation of the overall treatment time only lead to reduced loco-regional control in well to moderately differentiated tumors.
The severity of the normal tissue effects and a failure to demonstrate sustained local control does not support this fractionation scheme in patients with such extensive head and neck cancer.
While the incidence, intensity and duration of mucosal reactions was higher in p-CAIR than in p-CF the accelerated treatment can be considered tolerable with respect to acute toxicity. In both arms of the trial slight or moderate mucosal erythema was the most frequent acute side effect, which did not completely subside within 8 weeks after irradiation.
Oral HPV infection is strongly associated with oropharyngeal cancer among subjects with or without the established risk factors of tobacco and alcohol use.
The exceptionally high rate of cancer recurrence among patients with oral cancer (exceeding that for all other cancers) points to the need for close medical surveillance. Special emphasis should be placed on advising patients to avoid or limit consumption of tobacco and alcohol, the main risk factors for oral and most second cancers.
Cigarette smoking is a strong risk factor for head and neck cancer in both men and women. Incidence rates of head and neck cancer were higher in male smokers than female smokers, but smoking may explain a higher proportion of head and neck cancer in women than in men.
These results support similar studies in other parts of the UK and Europe. In the future there may be a substantial increase in the burden of new cases of oral cancer as birth cohorts with rising incidence rates enter age groups with higher disease frequencies. It is possible that raised alcohol consumption during the last 40 years may be responsible for the increases. This report reinforces the necessity to evaluate preventive programmes for oral cancer in the UK.
Though compliance with referral for confirmatory examination in the first round was lower than the 70% anticipated, intermediate end points, such as stage at diagnosis and case fatality, indicate that the trial is making fairly satisfactory progress.
The results of this study suggest that 5% acetic acid has high sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy in detecting oral squamous cell carcinoma and might be used as an adjunct for oral cancer examination.
The results suggest that patients attending general dental practices are representative of the general population both in terms of lesion prevalence and high risk habits such as smoking and drinking. This supports the view that opportunistic screening in a general dental practice setting may be a realistic alternative to population screening. Further research is needed to determine the cost effectiveness of this approach and to investigate the value of targeting high risk groups within this population. General dental practice is ideal for the evaluation of such systems prior to extending these studies to other healthcare settings.
The overall results suggest that although compliance with attending a free GHS was low (26.2%) among Japanese subjects over 40 years of age, of those who complied 74-76% reattended annually. Hence a satisfactory participation rate can be obtained in Japan for OMS when this is coupled to a GHS conducted at the same visit.
Many CDSSs improve practitioner performance. To date, the effects on patient outcomes remain understudied and, when studied, inconsistent.
With their significantly greater specificity and lower false-positive rates than doctors, DTs are potentially useful in confirming a diagnosis of acute appendicitis, but not in ruling it out. The clinical use of well-designed, condition-specific paper or computer-based structured checklists is promising as a way to improve impact on patient outcomes, subject to further research.
The reports selected for eventual inclusion revealed a high level of heterogeneity with respect to the location of investigations, prevalence of lesions, the personnel used and other factors. The meta-analysis indicated that overall the studies had high discriminatory ability. The estimates of Sn and Sp, and values obtained for other measures of screening performance, were considered suitable for input to a simulation model in assessing the likely cost-utility of a variety of screening scenarios in further planned research.
There is evidence that TB is effective as a diagnostic adjunct for use in high-risk populations and suspicious mucosal lesions. OralCDx is useful in assessment of dysplastic changes in clinically suspicious lesions; however, there are insufficient data meeting the inclusion criteria to assess usefulness in innocuous mucosal lesions. Overall, there is insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of visually based examination adjuncts. Practical Implications. Given the lack of data on the effectiveness of adjunctive cancer detection techniques in general dental practice settings, clinicians must rely on a thorough oral mucosal examination supported by specialty referral and/or tissue biopsy for OPML diagnosis.
Opportunistic high-risk screening, particularly in general dental practice, may be cost-effective. This screening may more effectively be targeted to younger age groups, particularly 40-60 year olds. However, there is considerable uncertainty in the parameters used in the model, particularly malignant transformation rate, disease progression, patterns of self-referral and costs. Further study is needed on malignant transformation rates of oral potentially malignant lesions and to determine the outcome of treatment of oral potentially malignant lesions. Evidence has been published to suggest that intervention has no greater benefit than 'watch and wait'. Hence a properly planned randomised controlled trial may be justified. Research is also needed into the rates of progression of oral cancer and on referral pathways from primary to secondary care and their effects on delay and stage of presentation.
Many issues in the design and conduct of diagnostic accuracy studies can lead to bias or variation; however, the empirical evidence about the size and effect of these issues is limited.
This study suggests that opportunistic oral cancer screening by dentists is not feasible to include high-risk groups as they are not regular attendees over 10 years. Those who would be screened would be the low-risk groups. However, dentists should continue screening all patients as oral precancers are also found in regular attendees. More should be done to encourage the high-risk groups to visit their dentists.
Memantine was well tolerated and had a toxicity profile very similar to placebo. Although there was less decline in the primary endpoint of delayed recall at 24 weeks, this lacked statistical significance possibly due to significant patient loss. Overall, patients treated with memantine had better cognitive function over time; specifically, memantine delayed time to cognitive decline and reduced the rate of decline in memory, executive function, and processing speed in patients receiving WBRT. RTOG 0614, ClinicalTrials.gov number CT00566852.
Some improvement in quality of life and cognitive function were noted with Ginkgo biloba. However, treatment with Ginkgo biloba was associated with a high dropout rate.
Modafinil did not exceed the effects of placebo with respect to symptom management. Patient accrual was slow, and relatively many patients dropped out during the trial, due mostly to side effects. Other, preferably nonpharmacologic intervention studies should be considered to improve symptom management of PBT patients.
The current investigation was a preliminary study on the effect of alpha-tocopherol on the cognitive function of patients with TLN after radiotherapy for NPC. In view of the absence of effective treatment for patients with cerebral radionecrosis, alpha-tocopherol has the potential to be a complementary intervention for patients with cognitive dysfunction due to TLN.
On the basis of the current results, the authors concluded tentatively that HBOT improves neurophysiologic performance in long-term brain tumor survivors.
There is substantial evidence to support interventions for attention, memory, social communication skills, executive function, and for comprehensive-holistic neuropsychologic rehabilitation after TBI. Evidence supports visuospatial rehabilitation after right hemisphere stroke, and interventions for aphasia and apraxia after left hemisphere stroke. Together with our prior reviews, we have evaluated a total of 370 interventions, including 65 class I or Ia studies. There is now sufficient information to support evidence-based protocols and implement empirically-supported treatments for cognitive disability after TBI and stroke.
Targeted agents appear to improve local control and overall survival in patients treated with GKS for metastastic RCC.
PCNSL survivors treated with WBRT +/- chemotherapy displayed more pronounced cognitive dysfunction than patients treated with MTX-based chemotherapy alone.
It is likely that the true incidence of treatment-related side effects of cranial irradiation in adults who survive more than 6 months without brain tumor growth or recurrence has been significantly underestimated. Research designs that include formal neuropsychologic assessment in conjunction with other neurodiagnostic tests can provide more comprehensive evaluation of long-term neurobehavioral outcomes.
Outcome after ABI is represented by the unitary dimension described by the MPAI. MPAI subscales further define regions of this dimension that may be useful for evaluation of clinical cases and program evaluation.
Impaired cognition, weakness, and visual-perceptual deficits were the most common problems in this study population. Our study supports the benefits of comprehensive and interdisciplinary rehabilitation for patients with primary as well as metastatic brain tumors.
Survivors of childhood ALL had significant deficits in attention and smaller white-matter volumes that were associated directly with impaired neurocognitive performance. Cranial irradiation exacerbated these deficits.
The results of our study have shown that WBRT causes cognitive dysfunction immediately after the beginning of RT in patients with brain metastases only. At 6-8 weeks after the end of WBRT, cognitive dysfunction was seen in patients with and without brain metastases. Because cognitive dysfunction after WBRT is restricted to verbal memory, patients should not avoid WBRT because of a fear of neurocognitive side effects.
General psychosocial benefits and body image gains continued to manifest at 2 years postmastectomy reconstruction. In addition, procedure type had a surprisingly limited effect on psychosocial well being. With outcomes evolving beyond year 1, these data support the need for additional longitudinal breast reconstruction outcome studies.
American women enrolled in the ATAC trial were more likely to undergo aggressive surgery compared with their counterparts from the United Kingdom. More generally, nationality was found to be an independent determinant of surgical choice in the current study.
Both patient- and treatment-related factors place women at risk for poor esthetic outcomes after breast-conserving surgery. Oncoplastic and reconstructive options should be considered for those at a higher risk for poor esthetic outcomes at the time of consultation.
When surgical management of MBO is considered, a careful assessment of the factors shown here to predict an adverse surgical outcome and poor prognosis is required.
SBO secondary to malignant disease usually indicates a grim prognosis. Operative treatment has better outcome than nonoperative management in terms of symptom free interval and reobstruction rates. However, it is marked by high postoperative morbidity. We recommend that, after short trial of nasogastric decompression, patients with obstruction secondary to malignant disease be operated on if clinical factors indicate they they will survive the operation.
Repeat surgery for recurrent bowel obstruction in advanced ovarian carcinoma may achieve successful palliation in few cases and is associated with high postoperative morbidity and limited survival. In these patients non surgical approaches based on medical treatment, percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and stent placement should be considered.
The majority of our patients undergoing surgery had successful palliation, and were able to receive further chemotherapy. They were discharged home, and could tolerate solid food.
PEG tube placement in ovarian carcinoma is technically feasible and safe in the palliative setting. In addition, PEG tube placement allowed the majority of patients to have end-of-life care either at home or in an inpatient hospice. For the total population, no benefit was seen regarding survival with the use of TPN in this setting. Selected patients (younger age and without liver metastasis) may benefit from chemotherapy after PEG tube placement.
Methyl aminolevulinate PDT is an effective treatment for nodular BCC, and while there is a trend for higher recurrence with this modality, it conveys the advantage over surgery of better cosmesis.
Imiquimod 5% cream administered 7 x/week for 6 weeks is a safe and effective treatment for sBCC when compared with vehicle cream.
Topical 5% imiquimod cream is well tolerated and most effective in treating nodular BCC when applied once daily for 7 days per week for either 12 or 6 weeks.
In the superficial study, the complete response rate of 87% in the 3 days per week with occlusion group was similar to that of daily and 5 days per week dosing without occlusion in a previous 12-week study and one study of daily dosing without occlusion for 6 weeks. All treatment groups had acceptable safety profiles in both studies. Occlusion did not have a statistically significant effect on efficacy for either superficial or nodular BCC tumours.
In terms of efficacy, ALA-PDT is comparable with cryosurgery as a treatment modality for BCCs. Retreatments are more often required with PDT than with cryosurgery. This can easily be performed due to the shorter healing time, less scarring and better cosmetic outcome that follows ALA-PDT.
Superficial BCC differs from the other subtypes of BCC in terms of patient age and tumor site, and these findings may reflect differences in the etiology.
Recurrence rates for different therapies could not be compared because of a lack of uniformity in the method of reporting, so evidence-based guidelines could not be developed. We surmise that Mohs micrographic surgery should be used mainly for larger, morphea-type BCCs located in danger zones. For smaller BCCs of the nodular and superficial types, surgical excision remains the first treatment of choice. Other treatment modalities can be used in patients in whom surgery is contraindicated. Immunotherapy and photodynamic therapy are still investigative.
To establish a good platform for randomization the clinician needs to know about the patient's treatment preferences and the patient's attitude concerning the role of the clinician to facilitate decision making. The strategies used by the clinicians were perceived as helpful and could be tested in an intervention study.
Radical prostatectomy reduces disease-specific mortality, overall mortality, and the risks of metastasis and local progression. The absolute reduction in the risk of death after 10 years is small, but the reductions in the risks of metastasis and local tumor progression are substantial.
Although baseline PSA value and rate of PSA change are prognostic factors for lethal prostate cancer, they are poor predictors of lethal prostate cancer among patients with localized prostate cancer who are managed by watchful waiting.
In this randomized trial, radical prostatectomy significantly reduced disease-specific mortality, but there was no significant difference between surgery and watchful waiting in terms of overall survival.
Androgen deprivation negatively affected self-assessed quality of life in men assigned to watchful waiting. The number of physical symptoms was associated with the level of quality of life. Quality of life was lower with longer follow-up time in both groups and was statistically significant in the watchful waiting group (p=0.03).
The assignment of patients to watchful waiting or radical prostatectomy entails different risks of erectile dysfunction, urinary leakage, and urinary obstruction, but on average, the choice has little if any influence on well-being or the subjective quality of life after a mean follow-up of four years.
In PSA-detected men, yearly change in PSA was similar to that in cancer-free men, whereas in men with symptomatic PCa, the yearly change in PSA level was considerably higher. Our method needs further evaluation but has promise for refining active monitoring protocols.
Our findings suggest that patients undergoing surgery for clinically localized prostate cancer may have a cancer specific survival advantage compared to those electing radiation or observation. However, only a randomized trial can control for the many known and unknown confounding factors that can affect long-term outcomes.
There is high-quality evidence from one randomized trial in favor of surgery over watchful waiting with palliative intent for non-high grade localized prostate cancer. However, most tumors in this study were clinically diagnosed rather than screen-detected. Further randomized trials examining the treatment of screen-detected, localized prostate cancer are needed; several are currently underway.
The disease-specific mortality was comparatively high, but it took 15 years to reach a disease-specific mortality rate of 56%. These data form a truly population-based baseline on how prostate carcinoma will affect a population when screening is not applied and can be used for comparison with other health care strategies.
Our findings suggest that important differences in quality of life go beyond known physical symptoms associated with various prostate cancer treatment options, many of which involve making a trade-off. It is important for patients with prostate cancer and health care providers to consider these differences while making treatment decisions.
These data provide precise estimates of the outcomes of patients who have been treated with different modalities for nonmetastatic prostate carcinoma in the recent past. Direct comparisons of outcomes between treatment groups are inadvisable because of the different characteristics of patients who select these alternative management strategies.
Over one third of prostate cancer patients needed surgical intervention within 66 mo of their initial treatment despite the type of initial treatment.
Early intervention with hormonal treatment for patients with LAPC provides significantly lower mortality and objective disease progression than deferring their use until standard care has failed.
These data suggest that in Stage D1 prostate cancer, a trend toward a statistical difference in survival may exist for radical prostatectomy as compared with conservative treatment. Further case-controlled and prospective randomized studies are needed to verify these results.
For patients with Stage D1 prostate adenocarcinoma, radical prostatectomy and local irradiation as local treatments when combined with orchiectomy produce similar outcomes. These results should be verified in a prospective study.
A policy of watchful waiting with selectively delayed intervention based on predefined criteria of disease progression is feasible. This strategy offers the benefit of an individualized approach based on the demonstrated risk of clinical or biochemical progression with time and, thus, it may decrease the burden of therapy in patients with indolent disease, while providing definitive therapy for those with biologically active disease.
Compared with the other active treatments for localised PCA, HT appears to be associated with poorer HRQOL and greater psychological distress 12 months after commencing treatment.
With a median followup of 29 months active surveillance for select patients appears to be safe and associated with a low risk of systemic progression. Cancer at restaging biopsy and a higher total number of cancerous cores are associated with a lower likelihood of remaining on active surveillance. A restaging biopsy should be strongly considered to finalize eligibility for active surveillance.
The risk of urethral stricture treatment after prostate cancer therapy is 1.1% to 8.4% depending on cancer treatment type. Risk was highest after radical prostatectomy or brachytherapy plus external beam radiotherapy and in those with advanced age or obesity. Stricture after radical prostatectomy occurred within the first 24 months, whereas onset was delayed after radiation.
This study shows that Hispanic race does not influence the treatment failure rate of radical prostatectomy in contemporaneously treated patients with prostate cancer at 1 institution. To our knowledge this study represents the largest of its kind, but longer followup and other confirmatory studies are needed.
The REDEEM study will evaluate the potential for dutasteride to delay disease progression in men with low-risk, localized prostate cancer. This study will better define which patients with prostate cancer can be managed with less invasive and potentially less debilitating therapy.
Health-related QOL and health status are similar regardless of type of treatment. Radiation tends to produce more gastrointestinal symptoms, and surgery tends to produce more sexual functioning symptoms. Watchful waiting is associated with poorer general health.
UI is the most common adverse consequence from treatment for localized prostate cancer. All of the possible treatment modalities carry some risk of UI. Providing accurate information to patients allows them to make informed decisions regarding treatment and can improve the quality of life in the posttreatment period.
Because of the favorable results in this expectant management study, it appears prudent that all patients with localized prostate cancer should have this management option as well as radical surgery or external irradiation.
Reliability and validity of the Japanese version of the Extended Prostate Cancer Index Composite were verified, although revision is needed for it to be more comprehensible for elderly patients and those with low education. It can be used for cross-cultural assessment of health related quality of life in patients with localized prostate cancer treated with current multidisciplinary treatment modalities.
The HRQOL after CT of prostate cancer was related to patients' self-perception of continence. Incontinence, either urinary or fecal, was associated with an increased self-reported HRQOL burden, although reduced sexual function was not associated with such a change. The WW patients maintain their HRQOL. Separating the continent and incontinent patients during the analysis of the posttreatment HRQOL brought to light the adverse outcomes associated with post-CT incontinence.
Most men with favorable risk prostate cancer will die of unrelated causes. The approach of active surveillance with selective delayed intervention based on PSA DT represents a practical compromise between radical therapy in all, which results in overtreatment in patients with indolent disease, and watchful waiting with palliative therapy only, which results in under treatment in those with aggressive disease. Results at 8 years are favorable. Longer followup will be required to confirm the safety of this approach in men with long (greater than 15-year) life expectancy.
Older patients with high risk cancer are far more likely to be observed regardless of the burden of comorbidity. A more tailored approach to prostate cancer therapy that considers comorbidity and functional level to determine primary therapy may be more appropriate. Well selected older patients with high risk disease, particularly those with low comorbidity levels, may derive survival benefit from a primary therapy other than watchful waiting. Alternatively elderly patients with low risk disease may be better treated with watchful waiting.
Rather than being based only on clinical presentation and disease progression, decisions about treatment receipt for some men are influenced by cancer related anxiety. Men should be provided with more psychosocial support to perhaps delay treatment and the ensuing decrements in health related quality of life.
The mental health profiles differ for patients undergoing surgery, radiation, or watchful waiting for early stage prostate carcinoma. Men with more serious disease, as evidenced by higher PSA levels or more aggressive histology, tended to worry more about it. Older men performed better, while sicker men performed worse, even though the older men tended to be sicker.
There was a significant long-term survival benefit in men receiving radical prostatectomy compared to those receiving watchful-waiting or radiotherapy.
Short and medium-term prognosis is excellent for localized prostate cancer in terms of survival. Nevertheless, some patients show a higher risk of progressing to metastatic disease (poorly differentiated Gleason score).
Telephone-based dietary counselling increases vegetable intake and plasma concentrations of potentially anticarcinogenic carotenoids in men with prostate cancer on active surveillance. These data support the feasibility of implementing clinical trials of diet-based interventions in this population.
Men with high risk but nonmetastatic prostate cancer are more likely to receive radiation therapy as well as androgen deprivation with the latter as primary therapy or in conjunction with local treatment. These data stress the importance of pretreatment risk stratification, education regarding appropriate combinations of local and systemic therapies, and the consideration of novel clinical trials in patients at higher risk.
Our study results suggest that surgery offers the best chance of long-term prostate cancer-specific survival, in particular for younger patients and patients with poorly differentiated tumors. Until clinical trials provide conclusive evidence, physicians and patients should be informed of these results and their limitations.
The results of this study suggested that the long-term HRQL of prostate cancer survivors may vary significantly as a function of the type of primary treatment. Because baseline differences between treatment groups cannot be excluded as part of the explanation for these differences, the current findings need to be verified in longitudinal studies.
The urinary and sexual domains of UCLA PCI and the Extended Prostate Cancer Index Composite showed strong correlations. In contrast, the correlation for the bowel domain was relatively weak. The results of the linking analysis between UCLA PCI and the Extended Prostate Cancer Index Composite may have implications useful for their interpretation.
Patients with early-stage prostate cancer choosing active surveillance might be able to avoid or delay conventional treatment for at least 2 years by making changes in their diet and lifestyle.
The association of nonclinical factors with treatment suggests that, in the absence of definitive information regarding treatment effectiveness, men diagnosed with prostate cancer should be better informed of the risks and benefits of all treatment options.
Aggressive treatment was associated with significant decreases in disease-specific HRQOL. However, men who were aggressively treated for localized cancer had a minimally reduced absolute risk of dying from prostate cancer. Physicians and older patients should consider these outcomes in making decisions about screening and treatment.
African Americans with more aggressive cancers were less likely to undergo radical prostatectomy and more likely to be treated conservatively. These treatment differences may reflect African Americans' greater likelihood for presenting with pathologically advanced cancer for which surgery has limited effectiveness. Among men with less aggressive cancers-the majority of cases-there were no racial differences in undergoing radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.
The majority of men were satisfied with their treatment selection for clinically localized prostate carcinoma. Receiving an active treatment, believing oneself to be free of cancer, avoiding treatment complications, and having good overall health and social support were positively associated with satisfaction.
Men undergoing radical prostatectomy have substantial declines in urinary and sexual function, and men undergoing radiotherapy have declines in sexual function. Men undergoing expectant management have no change in disease-specific or general HRQOL in the first year after treatment.
Erectile dysfunction develops in greater than 80% of patients treated for prostate cancer. External beam radiation has the same risk for erectile dysfunction as radical prostatectomy.
The optimal treatment for prostate cancer depends on both the clinical scenario (patient age and tumor aggressiveness) and the patient's preferences. Decision analyses taking individualized preferences into account may be a useful adjunct in clinical decision-making.
The results of this study have shown that compared with conservative management, both radiotherapy and radical prostatectomy increase survival for men with localized prostate cancer.
Survival of men with high grade prostate cancer can be improved by radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy.
A better survival was observed in men treated with a definitive therapy. The magnitude of the benefit on PCSM or ACM was similar for both definitive therapies irrespective of age.
Although we were able to compare complications of treatments, we were unable to determine treatment effectiveness for localized prostate cancer because of methodologic inadequacies in the literature we reviewed. Until better scientific evidence is available, patients and their physicians cannot make informed choices based on knowledge of the benefits of radical prostatectomy, radiation, or watchful waiting.
This study suggests a survival advantage is associated with active treatment for low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer in elderly men aged 65 to 80 years. Because observational data cannot completely adjust for potential selection bias and confounding, these results must be validated in randomized controlled trials of alternative management strategies in elderly men with localized prostate cancer.
PIVOT enrolled an ethnically diverse population representative of men diagnosed with prostate cancer in the United States. Results will yield important information regarding the relative effectiveness and harms of surgery compared to watchful waiting for men with predominately PSA detected clinically localized prostate cancer.
Most men found PSA testing and biopsy acceptable, but perceptions of risk were not always accurate and the provision of more tailored information may help facilitate informed decision-making.
This study confirms the findings of other studies that the deleterious effects of receiving an abnormal PSA result during population screening are not identified by generic health-status questionnaires. Comparisons with outcomes of studies measuring cancer-specific distress and using qualitative research methods raise the question of whether a prostate cancer screening-specific instrument is required. However, a standardized measure of anxiety identified differences at baseline between those who did and did not report urinary symptoms. These findings suggest that it might be advisable to better inform men undergoing PSA testing about the uncertain relationship between urinary symptoms and prostate cancer, to minimize baseline levels of psychological distress.
A history of LUTS before PSA testing marginally improves the prediction of an individual's risk for prostate cancer; men with a PSA level of >or=3 ng/mL and LUTS were more likely to be diagnosed with benign disease than prostate cancer.
This study found some differences at baseline between the socio-demographic and psychological status of those randomised and self-selecting treatment, but no psychological differences at short-term follow-up. Further empirical evidence is required to assess whether preferences impact upon the process and outcome of randomised controlled trials.
Women who have been treated for cervical cancer have persistent vaginal changes that compromise sexual activity and result in considerable distress.
The strategy of initial conservative management and delayed hormone therapy is a reasonable choice for some men with grade 1 or 2 clinically localized prostate cancer, particularly for those who have an average life expectancy of 10 years or less. New treatment strategies are needed for men with grade 3 prostate cancer.
The doubling time of untreated clinically localized, low-to-intermediate grade prostate cancer varies widely.
The knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU guidelines on PCa summarize the most recent findings and put them into clinical practice.
AS is feasible in selected men with early prostate cancer. The natural history of this disease often appears extremely indolent, and most men on AS will avoid radical treatment. There is a marked contrast between AS (with radical treatment for biochemical progression) and WW (with palliative treatment for symptomatic progression). Ongoing studies are seeking to optimize the AS protocol, and to compare the long-term outcomes with those of immediate radical treatment.
Well-being and subjective quality of life in patients after radical cystectomy and orthotopic bladder substitution were similar to those in a matched control population.
Younger patient age (less than 65) is associated with a greater likelihood of returning to baseline continence, potency and physical health after radical prostatectomy. In addition, patients who underwent radical prostatectomy without comorbidities and those with high health self-ratings are more likely to return to baseline physical and mental health, respectively. Preoperative tumor characteristics do not appear to be associated with regaining baseline HRQOL, suggesting that factors not measured in this model may be important in optimizing quality of life after radical prostatectomy.
This study shows that ED after RP has a profound effect on QoL; it is therefore important when assessing ED to use an ED-specific QoL questionnaire such as the ED-EQoL to measure the psychosocial effect of ED, in addition to using an instrument such as the International Index of Erectile Function to measure the functional aspects of ED.
The guideline recommendations reflect a changed attitude toward the treatment of prostate cancer in the light of the early detection of these tumors and the data now available regarding active surveillance. A corresponding change in actual medical practice would be desirable. The treatment of prostate cancer should always be adapted to the individual needs of the patient, and risky treatments should only be used when absolutely necessary.
Surgical procedures to treat diaphragm disease increase the rate of complete and optimal debulking and correlate with improved survival even compared to patients optimally debulked without diaphragm surgery performed.
Surgical resection of cul-de-sac disease by SoP and RS is associated with improved survival in ovarian cancer patients. Tumor resection with en bloc RS may be preferable to allowing microscopic or infiltrative residual tumor.
In ovarian cancer patients with < 10 mm residual disease who began platinum-taxane therapy, maximal cytoreduction to no visible residual disease was associated with improved initial chemotherapy response, less platinum resistance, and improved survival. Maximal cytoreduction may improve survival through increased sensitivity to initial chemotherapy and should be the goal of initial surgery in these patients.
Complete cytoreduction is possible for the majority of patients and improves survival, even compared to operations with minimal (</=1 cm) residual disease. Unless their medical condition prohibits anesthesia and surgery, patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer should undergo primary cytoreductive surgery with the intention of complete tumor removal.
Cytoreduction to a visibly disease-free outcome has a more significant influence on survival than the extent of metastatic disease present before surgery. Operative efforts should not be abbreviated on the hypothesis that extensive disease at specific anatomic regions precludes long-term survival.
Among patients with suboptimal (> 1 cm residual disease) epithelial ovarian cancer, those who have small diameter residual disease (< 2 cm) tend to survive longer than those who have larger residual disease. Among those with larger residual disease, size does not affect prognosis appreciably.
Although primary surgery that includes > or = 2 bowel resections is associated with longer LOS and a higher EBL, such extensive procedures are warranted if they will contribute to an overall optimal residual disease state.
Incorporating paclitaxel into first-line therapy improves the duration of progression-free survival and of overall survival in women with incompletely resected stage III and stage IV ovarian cancer.
Ovarian cancer patients with advanced disease who are 65 years of age or older and/or with a performance status of 2 have significantly decreased survival compared to their younger and/or less debilitated counterparts. Carboplatin-cyclophosphamide is the recommended treatment (rather than cisplatin-cyclophosphamide), especially for older or debilitated patients because it is associated with less toxicity and similar survival.
As compared with intravenous cisplatin, intraperitoneal cisplatin significantly improves survival and has significantly fewer toxic effects in patients with stage III ovarian cancer and residual tumor masses of 2 cm or less.
Optimal cytoreductive surgery is feasible in many elderly patients. Women>or=80 years and with poor nutritional status are associated with a poor survival outcome. Perioperative variables such as these can be used to identify the elderly patients that are most likely to be suboptimally cytoreduced and thus have a dismal survival outcome.
The results indicate a survival benefit after introduction of centralised primary surgery. Compared to existing national and regional data on survival in ovarian cancer, the results indicate an increase in median survival for all stages of approximately 15 months. Centralisation of primary surgery to centres with the necessary expertise may be the most significant way to increase survival in ovarian cancer in Denmark.
Optimal surgical debulking and performance status appear to be important determinants of survival in patients with Stage IV epithelial ovarian cancer. Even in patients with unresectable liver metastasis, optimal debulking of extrahepatic disease is associated with a significant survival advantage.
Although dose intensive combination platinum treatment combined with cyclophosphamide in patients with AOC is active, it also is associated with substantial toxicity.
Good long term results were obtained with HDC. Small volume residual disease, platinum sensitivity, and histology excluding mucinous and clear cell adenocarcinoma were important factors for better survival. However, because the results were obtained for selected patients, a prospective, randomized study comparing HDC and standard chemotherapy is necessary if any definitive conclusions are to be drawn.
In women with advanced ovarian cancer, initial therapy with a cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy regimen resulted in higher clinical complete response rates and longer time to failure compared with initial therapy with a single, oral alkylating agent; however, the benefits of this approach were confined to women older than 50 years of age at diagnosis, and there was no significant difference in survival.
The need to remove a large number of peritoneal implants correlates with biological aggressiveness and diminished survival, but not significantly enough to preclude long-term survival or justify abbreviation of the operative effort. The need to use the other investigated procedures had minimal or no observed influence on survival.
Systematic use of GM-CSF improved dose intensity by shortening the intensive treatment period by about 4 weeks. Use of GM-CSF reduced the days for inpatient antibiotics by about 1 week per child, which translates into reduced costs.
Low risk children with cancer who are hospitalized and treated for fever and neutropenia but appear clinically well may have intravenous antibiotics discontinued and be discharged safely irrespective of the ANC, as long as their granulocyte count is rising. This approach shortens hospital stays and results in considerable cost savings.
In the setting of pediatric leukemia, the cost of growth factor may offset potential savings from shorter hospital stays or lower antibiotic use, a finding consistent with that from the Children's Cancer Study Group.
In children and adolescents undergoing intensive chemotherapy for solid tumors, GM-CSF reduces neutropenia and infectious episodes at the cost of mild thrombocytopenia.
The clinical variables that were significant in this study account, in validation R2 estimates, for more than 25% of the variability in administrative outcomes for encounters of fever and neutropenia. Adjusting length of stay and charges for these clinical variables would allow for a fairer comparison of institutions and individual providers. The electronic case-finding algorithm served as an efficient way to identify absolute monocyte count and tumor type as the major predictors and provided a conservative estimate of R2.
Amifostine in the doses and schedule used in this study failed to significantly reduce the incidence of platinum-induced toxicities in patients with HB.
Amifostine did not protect against HDPEB-associated ototoxicity.
We found evidence that long-term neuroblastoma survivors, especially those with hearing loss, are at elevated risk for academic learning problems and psychosocial difficulties. We also found strong concordance between parent-reported learning problems in the child and indications of distress in the child's self-reported quality of life.
Supplementation with soy protein containing isoflavones does not reduce colorectal epithelial cell proliferation or the average height of proliferating cells in the cecum, sigmoid colon, and rectum and increases cell proliferation measures in the sigmoid colon.
Flavopiridol in this dose and schedule does not have single-agent activity in patients with ACRC. Recent preclinical data suggest that flavopiridol enhances apoptosis when combined with chemotherapy. Trials that evaluate flavopiridol in combination with active cytotoxic drugs should help to define the role of this novel agent in ACRC.
Among several cancers studied, our data suggest that catechin intake may protect against rectal cancer. The distinct effects found for catechins derived from solid foods (fruits) and beverages (tea) may be due to differences in bioavailability or metabolism of the catechins, or to their interactions with other dietary components.
This investigation does not support the hypothesis that consumption of black tea protects against four of the major cancers in humans; a cancer-enhancing effect was not evident, either.
Single daily dosing of amikacin and ceftriaxone was as effective and no more toxic than multiple daily dosing of amikacin and ceftazidime for the empiric therapy of infection in patients with cancer and granulocytopenia.
Variables associated with metastatic recurrence were factors to early phase recurrence; whereas those related with elevated carcinogenesis contributed to late phase recurrence, thus providing an epidemiological evidence that different mechanisms, i.e. metastasis and de novo, are involved in intrahepatic recurrence after hepatectomy for HCC.
The magnitude of EBL during HCC resection is related to biologic characteristics of the tumor as well as the extent of surgery. Increased intraoperative blood loss during HCC resection is an independent prognostic factor for tumor recurrence and death.
Further randomized controlled studies need to be carried out. Currently, there is no consensus on a standard neoadjuvant/adjuvant/chemoprevention therapy in partial hepatectomy for HCC.
Most recurrences occure within the first six months postoperatively and multifocal carcinogenesis is one of the risk factors associated with early recurrence after liver resection for advanced HCC. DSA is an important surveillance for early detection of intra-hepatic recurrence after surgery; meanwhile, it also provides information for early management to control the disease progression and for future active therapies.
A combined approach involving TACE and percutaneous ablation improves survival. Adjuvant TOCE improves outcome after hepatectomy. TACE is useful to control tumours burden while on the waiting list for OLT. Multimodal treatment seems to be the best way to optimize TACE outcomes in HCC.
Unpublished scales are a source of bias in schizophrenia trials.
Although early HCC is generally associated with a good prognosis, pathologic factors can still be used to stratify patients with respect to survival after resection. These data emphasize the importance of pathologic staging even in small HCC.
According to our analysis, the oncological advantage of LTx compared with LR is questionable. This applies especially for small tumors. Superior results of LTx in early stage HCC and particularly in oligocentric tumors may be attributed to incorrect preoperative diagnosis. Nevertheless, LTx is a reasonable treatment for patients with early stage tumors if a LR is impossible because of tumor localization or poor functional hepatic capacity.
Knowledge of the risk factors for postoperative recurrence provides a basis for logical approaches to prevention. Minimal surgical manipulation of tumors to prevent tumor cell dissemination, avoidance of perioperative blood transfusion, and suppression of chronic hepatitis activity in the liver remnant are strategies that may be useful in preventing recurrence. The efficacy of postoperative adjuvant regional chemotherapy deserves further evaluation. New concepts on the influence of tumor biologic factors such as angiogenic activity on recurrence of HCC suggest a potential role of novel approaches such as antiangiogenesis for adjuvant therapy in the future. Currently, the most realistic approach in prolonging survival after resection of HCC is early detection and aggressive management of recurrence. Randomized trials are needed to define the roles of various treatment modalities for recurrence and the benefit of multimodality therapy.
An absence of satellite lesions and an uneventful postoperative course are the two main independent predictors for long-term disease-free survival in HCC patients undergoing hepatic resection.
The prognosis of untreated HCC not suitable for curative treatment in Asia is grave despite improved supportive treatment. The four prognostic variables identified in this study are important in the decision for palliative treatment, and the Okuda staging remains an important prognostic guide.
A confirmatory clinical trial is required for two interrelated reasons: 1) scientifically, it is important to demonstrate that an agent that has its dominant effect on a normal tissue cell, the osteoclast, can influence the growth of neoplastic cells; and 2) from the perspective of patient care, it must be unequivocally shown that a reduction in the rate of osseous recurrence translates into an improvement in disease free survival or an improvement in quality of life through reduction of adverse skeletal events. The National Surgical Adjuvant Breast Project has committed to conducting this study and including women with operable breast carcinoma.
As many as 80% of selected patients with painful osteoblastic bony metastases from prostate or breast cancer may experience some pain relief following 89Sr administration. In addition, as many as 10% or more may become pain free. Duration of clinical response may average 3 to 6 months in some cases. Hemotoxicity is mild. A decrease in treatment costs with administration of 89Sr to patients with painful osteoblastic bony metastases from prostate cancer may occur. These observations reflect the preliminary nature of knowledge in this field and point to the need for larger clinical trials of the use of 89Sr palliation.
Vulva preserving treatment methods for VIN have high recurrence rates, especially in patients with HPV infection and multifocal disease. Therefore, careful long-term surveillance is mandatory.
WOMAN-PRO data showed a high symptom prevalence and distress, call for a comprehensive symptom assessment, and may allow identification of relevant areas in symptom management.
Consensus on the ideal management of VIN or evaluation of new strategies will prove impossible without standardised data presentation. We propose a number of performance indicators that will facilitate evaluation of future studies or series against the current benchmark of surgical treatment for VIN.
Differentiated-type VIN is significantly more associated with vulval squamous cell carcinoma than usual-type VIN.
Although the advent of new medical options can decrease the morbidity associated with invasive surgical procedures, surgical treatments remain the best treatment modality for VIN with regard to relapse and overall complete response.
Judgments regarding the quality of a hospital's performance of coronary artery bypass surgery vary depending on the definition of postoperative mortality that is used. Further research is needed to assess what definition is most appropriate to identify quality of care problems.
Infection with HBV and HCV are the major risk factors for the development of HCC in Indian patients. Presence of HBV antibodies even in the absence of HBsAg conferred increased risk for HCC in the presence or absence of cirrhosis. Anti-HCV positivity in the absence of HCV RNA conferred no increased risk. HCV RNA positivity and heavy alcohol use significantly increased the risk of HCC among cirrhotic patients, but not non-cirrhotic patients.
The authors observed a pattern of declining survival rates in patients with increasing age of the patient at diagnosis for most histological groups and overall improvements in survival rates of patients across these time periods adjusting for age at diagnosis. There were improvements in 2- and 5-year survival rates over the three time periods for children and adults with medulloblastoma and for adults with astrocytoma and oligodendroglioma. Improvements in survival rates for pediatric patients with medulloblastoma have leveled off in the most recent time period, and gender differences in survival rates for patients with this tumor, which were present in the 1970s, have disappeared. Clinically significant improvements in survival rates were not apparent in patients aged 65 years and older. Changes in diagnostic and treatment procedures since the mid-1970s have resulted in improved survival rates for patients diagnosed as having medulloblastoma, oligodendroglioma, and astrocytoma, controlling for age at diagnosis. Glioblastoma multiforme continues to be the most intractable brain tumor.
Together, these data: (1) demonstrate that sustained delivery of chemotherapy in or near the tumor site is superior to equipotent bolus doses in inoperable tumors, (2) demonstrate that injection of sustained release microspheres into the tissue surrounding a growing tumor may provide superior effects over injections directly into the tumor mass, and (3) suggest that this approach may provide a useful means of selectively delivering chemotherapeutics to tumors or portions of tumors that cannot otherwise be treated with conventional surgical approaches.
In a double-blind randomized sham-controlled trial, intramuscular BoNT-A and therapy were effective for improving ease of care and comfort for nonambulant children with CP. There was no increase in moderate and severe AE in the children who had BoNT-A injections compared with the sham group.
CITB was effective at 12 months and safe up to 24 months for carefully selected children with intractable spastic CP. CITB relieved pain, facilitated ease of care and improved mental health. The majority of children could extend their activities and participation.
A controlled trial confirmed the spine benefits of short-term pamidronate treatment in children with types III and IV OI. Pamidronate increased L1-L4 vertebral DXA and decreased vertebral compressions and upper extremity fractures. Vertebral measures did not improve during the extended treatment phase. The treatment group did not experience decreased lower extremity long bone fractures, significant improvement in growth, ambulation, muscle strength, or pain. There was substantial variability in individual response to treatment.
Oral ALN for 2 yr in pediatric patients with OI significantly decreased bone turnover and increased spine areal BMD but was not associated with improved fracture outcomes.
APD seems to be an efficient symptomatic treatment for children and adolescents with OI.
We conclude that administration of low-dose naloxone (0.25 microg/kg per hour) does not decrease fentanyl requirements in critically ill, mechanically ventilated children.
Oral and intravenous bisphosphonate therapies are equally effective in children with OI and are particularly effective in milder forms. The oral route is highly acceptable in children and has practical advantages over the intravenous route.
Alendronate does not reliably improve bone density in children and young adults with primarily neuromuscular disease and without osteogenesis imperfecta. Individual patients treated with bisphosphonates must be carefully followed to ensure medication compliance and appropriate response.
Our results support the findings of Glorieux et al that cyclic administration of intravenous pamidronate in children with OI has beneficial effects with respect to BMD z scores and physical disability. Long-term follow-up will be required to determine whether bisphosphonate therapy will decrease fracture rates and increase mobility in children with moderate to severe OI.
Transdermal fentanyl was found to be a safe and well tolerated alternative to oral opioid treatment for children ages 2-16 years who were previously exposed to opioid therapy.
In children with severe osteogenesis imperfecta, cyclic administration of intravenous pamidronate improved clinical outcomes, reduced bone resorption, and increased bone density.
This is the first randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled dose-escalation study in spastic children demonstrating the soleus H-reflex to be a feasible and objective measure to quantify the decreasing motoneuron excitability in response to ITB bolus administration. Only in children not taking oral baclofen, FR threshold area can also be used as an objective outcome measure, yet feasibility is limited.
The multidisciplinary, rational approach, which involves early surgical intramedullary fixation of fractures with subsequent rehabilitation and Pamidronate administration, is considered to provide a more effective therapy with better results and therefore better quality of life in patients with osteogenesis imperfecta.
PCA plus BI with fentanyl administered by intravenous route is a safe and efficacious method for analgesia in children with moderate to severe cancer pain. Our policy of fentanyl-treatment did not show any major side effects.
Transdermal buprenorphine was found to represent an efficient, safe and well tolerated approach to the management of children's chronic cancer pain.
With at least as effective analgesia as with morphine, fentanyl had fewer side effects. Fentanyl may be superior to morphine for short-term postnatal analgesia in newborn infants.
The mean oral bioavailability of 35- and 70-mg ALN tablets was less than 0.6%, comparable to adult studies. Adverse experiences from single-dose ALN were minor, and the drug was generally well-tolerated.
Four years of cyclical intravenous pamidronate treatment led to a significant height gain in moderately to severely affected OI patients.
The care of pediatric cancer patients during the end stage of their disease is the responsibility of the caregivers who have followed them up since their diagnosis. However, it would be useful to establish an exchange of information and expertise between pediatric oncologists and the other facilities involved (hospices, other hospitals) or people assisting patients at home (family, family pediatrician/general practitioner GP).
Relationship exists between diagnosis, cause and place of death in this population; findings replicate findings of 4 similar studies; accurate and consistent quality standards of care need to be established for this population as well as methods of documentation before reviewing/accrediting agencies impose standards that are not evidence based.
PPC teams currently serve a diverse cohort of children and young adults with life-threatening conditions. In contrast to the reported experience of adult-oriented palliative care teams, most PPC patients are alive for more than a year after initiating PPC.
In 2010, the prevalence of LLCs in children in England was double the previously reported estimates and had increased annually in all areas over the past decade. This clearly identifies an escalating need for specialist pediatric palliative care services. When planning services for these increasing needs, the excess prevalence in ethnic minority groups, especially in deprived areas, needs to be considered.
The present study demonstrated that psychological symptoms (e.g. anxiety) are frequent symptoms in the end-of-life care period and cause severe suffering in the children. Questions in terms of benefits and costs of cancer-directed therapy in the end-of-life care period need to be addressed in future prospective studies. Parents' perspective on their child's death and related end-of-life decisions highlighted the importance of communication between parents and the health care team. Future studies need to investigate potential barriers in the communication between parents and the team to optimise end-of-life decisions and hence, reduce parents' long-term distress. In line with the previous, the present data demonstrated that there is still a lack of routine contact from the health care team following the child's death despite existing guidelines. Research is therefore needed into the implementation of guidelines for routine contact into clinical practice following a child's death.
The most frequently reported symptoms in children with malignancies to be aware of and possibly address during the terminal phase are physical fatigue, reduced mobility, pain, and decreased appetite. Children aged 9 to 15 years are reported to be moderately or severely affected by more symptoms than children in other age groups. Mothers and fathers report a similar prevalence of symptoms.
Results provide preliminary evidence of the instrument's feasibility, reliability and validity. Further study is required in clinical samples and for possible future applications in economic analyses.
Children who die of cancer receive aggressive treatment at the end of life. Many have substantial suffering in the last month of life, and attempts to control their symptoms are often unsuccessful. Greater attention must be paid to palliative care for children who are dying of cancer.
Sexual dysfunction resulting from the effects of radiation therapy on the ovaries and vagina can be prevented, minimized, or managed when the nurse is aware of the needs, desires, and expectations of patients receiving this treatment.
Reconstruction of the vagina and pelvic floor at the time of pelvic exenteration can be done safely. Although this increases surgical time, morbidity is not significantly increased. The rectus abdominis flap seems to be the preferable option for primary vaginal and pelvic floor reconstruction.
This is the first controlled study to provide evidence of an intervention's effectiveness 1. in increasing women's vaginal dilation following radiotherapy for gynecological carcinoma and 2. in reducing their fears about sex after cancer. Most women, particularly younger women, are unlikely to follow the recommendation to dilate unless they are given assistance in overcoming their fears and taught behavioral skills.
For those patients who have to receive prophylactic chemotherapy because of risk factors and unavailable hCG assessments for follow-up, it's better to use double-agent or combination chemotherapy if the level of serum β-hCG reached 750 000 U/L so as to reduce therapy duration and prevent relevant chemoresistance.
P-chem with a single dose of Act-D reduced postmolar GTN in 76% during follow-up of adolescents with Hr-HM. Since this regimen may reduce treatment costs, without affecting compliance with follow-up, it can be adopted by any Trophoblastic Disease Center.
P-chem did not affect reproductive outcomes for patients with Hr-HM. Patients allowed to become pregnant again in both groups had high rates of live births associated with normal pregnancies. Chances of a subsequent pregnancy were higher in the low age and low parity subgroups.
Follow-up of patients with Hr-HM showed that a single bolus dose of prophylactic Act-D reduced the incidence of postmolar GTN. Compliance and postmolar GTN morbidity were not affected. Treatment costs and emotional complications were reduced. This prophylactic approach can be adopted before uterine evacuation in any TDC that treats Hr-HM patients that present with undelivered moles.
Important advances have been made in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with gestational trophoblastic disease, and patients can be reassured that they can anticipate normal reproductive functioning.
Routine pre-evacuation ultrasound examination identifies less than 50% of hydatidiform moles, the majority sonographically appearing as missed or incomplete miscarriage. Detection rates are, however, higher for complete compared to partial moles, and improve after 14 weeks' gestation. Histopathological examination of products of conception remains the current gold standard for the identification of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.
Adopting cluster randomisation has implications for the design, size and analysis of clinical trials. This study gives an insight into the potential size of ICCs in primary and secondary care, and provides a practical guide to researchers to aid the planning of future studies in this area.
: To the authors' knowledge, the current study is the first to provide systematic estimations of breast cancer prevalence in all US states through 2015. The estimated levels and time trends were consistent with the available population-based data on breast cancer incidence, prevalence, and population aging. Cancer 2009. (c) 2009 American Cancer Society.
This study confirms previous findings in the earlier follow-up and indicates a long-term reduction of breast cancer mortality by 26-30%. The efficacy among those who actually attended screening was about 5% larger.
Men who choose active surveillance for early-stage prostate cancer are able to make comprehensive lifestyle changes. Although the average QOL was already high in this sample, individuals who improved their lifestyle enhanced their QOL further.
Physical training combined with cognitive-behavioral therapy and physical training alone had significant and beneficial effects on fatigue compared with no intervention. Physical training was equally effective as or more effective than physical training combined with cognitive-behavioral therapy in reducing cancer-related fatigue, suggesting that cognitive-behavioral therapy did not have additional beneficial effects beyond the benefits of physical training.
A behavior change intervention for breast cancer survivors based on the social cognitive theory is feasible and results in potentially meaningful improvements in physical activity and selected health outcomes. Confirmation in a larger study is warranted.
A short-term intervention can affect knowledge levels and physical activity but not diet or communication in the family.
Although not generally superior to conventional inpatient rehabilitation programmes, the analysed step-by- step rehabilitation provided marked benefits for patients with cognitive impairments.
These findings demonstrate the feasibility of developing standardized definitions of BCTs included in behavioral interventions and highlight problematic variability in the reporting of intervention content.
Consistent with existing research, results indicate that group interventions benefit cancer patients with limitations in psychosocial functioning. Findings underscore the importance of physical activity/exercise studies to employ control conditions that consider the attention and support provided by health educators and group members, particularly when examining psychosocial outcomes and pain.
Limited documentation exists on the efficacy of psychosocial rehabilitation interventions among BC patients. However, we found that patients might have QoL benefits from CBT given after primary BC treatment. More documentation is needed regarding the effects of CBT during primary treatment and the effects of psychoeducation and social support.
There is confusion about what 'psychological intervention' means in the cancer review literature. A clearer definition is essential to summarize research findings. We propose that rather than simply grouping interventions as 'psychological', it would be more useful if reviews focussed on specified domains of the interventions, namely content, proposed mechanism, target outcome, and methods of delivery. This would enable greater specificity in the review question, more meaningful comparisons, and would hopefully provide clearer answers for the readers of the reviews. A checklist for the summarizing of reports of interventions for review is provided.
Self-reports of limitations in physical function are influenced by personal and health characteristics that reflect frailty, and should not be interpreted solely as measured difficulty performing the task.
The evidence for multidimensional interventions and the economic impact of rehabilitation studies is scarce and dominated by breast cancer studies. Studies published so far report statistically significant benefits for multidimensional interventions over usual care, most notably for the outcomes fatigue and physical functioning. An additional benefit of multidimensional over monodimensional rehabilitation was not found, but this was also sparsely reported on. Available economic evaluations assessed very different rehabilitation interventions. Yet, despite low comparability, all showed favorable cost-effectiveness ratios. Future studies should focus their designs on the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of multidimensional programs.
Findings are largely consistent with Social Cognitive Theory and support the use of strategies to increase self-efficacy in health promotion interventions for cancer survivors.
Intensive lifestyle changes may affect the progression of early, low grade prostate cancer in men. Further studies and longer term followup are warranted.
Current evidence suggests many health benefits from physical activity during and post cancer treatments. Additional studies are needed in cancer diagnoses other than breast and with a focus on survivors in greatest need of improvements for the health outcomes of interest.
Although the methodological limitations of studies in this new field must be acknowledged, initial evidence indicates that exercise is feasible and may provide physiological and psychological benefits for cancer survivors during the rehabilitation period. Future studies with rigorous study designs are now required to advance the field.
Use of prophylactic immunoglobulin in allogeneic recipients of stem-cell transplant from HLA-identical sibling donors is not recommended.
A protective effect against infections is demonstrated for low-dose IVIG in the present study. A benefit was shown in patients who completed either 12 or 6 months of IVIG prophylaxis; however, even this low-dose treatment is not a cost effective way to prevent infection in CLL patients.
Passive immunotherapy with intravenous immunoglobulin decreases the risk of acute GVHD, associated interstitial pneumonia, and infections after bone marrow transplantation.
The use of IVIG did not prevent infection. Fewer deaths occurred among controls due to a higher incidence of fatal hepatic veno-occlusive disease in patients receiving IVIG.
Co-treatment with GnRH-a has little effect on ovarian protection in women with Hodgkin's disease.
The effectiveness of GnRH agonist plus add-back on the prevention of POF during polychemotherapy in women with Hodgkin's disease needs further elucidation in randomized controlled trials. The results of our pilot study are promising.
The current data showed that, in premenopausal women with early breast carcinoma, the addition of a Gn-RH analogue to adjuvant therapy and temporary total estrogen suppression in patients with ER-positive disease was tolerated well, protected long-term ovarian function, and appeared to improve the expected clinical outcome.
Our present results, with a high POF rate in Cyclophosphamide treated SLE patients demonstrate the urgent need for ovarian protection in this patient group. Besides POF these women are at high risk for premature atherosclerosis which is the major cause of death in lupus. Following preliminary encouraging experience in women with lymphoma, in whom the temporary induction of a prepubertal hormonal milieu during chemotherapy, has significantly decreased the risk of POF, we have initiated the PREGO-Study, comparing randomised monthly injection versus no injection of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue (GnRH-a) to young SLE patients during cyclophosphamide therapy.
The GnRH-a cotreatment should be considered in every woman in the reproductive age receiving chemotherapy, in addition to ART and the investigational attempts of ovarian cryopreservation for future in vitro maturation or reimplantation. If these preliminary data are confirmed in a larger group of patients, inhibin-A concentrations may serve as a prognostic factor for predicting the resumption of ovarian function in addition to the levels of FSH, LH, and estradiol.
The published clinical studies provide evidence, but do not prove statistically, that GnRH-a co-treatment reduces gonadotoxicity. Owing to the retrospective and non-randomized nature of most of the studies, definite conclusions concerning the reduction of POF by GnRH-a can still not be unequivocally drawn. As GnRH-a and OC have no serious side effects and as GnRH-a can even reduce chemotherapy-induced complications, such as severe menometrorrhagia, GnRH-a are considered by many clinicians as a clinically useful co-treatment in chemotherapy. The published clinical studies on OC also suggest a possible effect on the reduction of POF under certain conditions.
Based on the available studies, GnRHa appear to improve ovarian function and the ability to achieve pregnancy following chemotherapy. Several randomized trials are underway to define the role and mechanism of GnRHa in ovarian function preservation. In the meantime, premenopausal women facing chemotherapy should be counseled about ovarian preservation options, including the use of GnRHa therapy.
The pulsatile study confirms the different mechanism of action of GnRH analogues. Following antagonist administration, low amplitude free alpha-subunit pulses persist and are synchronous with residual LH pulses. In contrast, LH and free alpha-subunit are not maintained under agonist treatment. These data provide evidence for the differential regulation of LH and free alpha-subunit by GnRH.
Study showed a significant reduction of ovarian failure risk in women with HL treated with less aggressive CHT regimens plus a GnRH analogue.
The combination of GnRH-agonist and GnRH-antagonist enables a rapid, reliable and cost-effective suppression of the pituitary-gonadal axis to be achieved. Future gonadal function of treated patients will be monitored.
Administration of the GnRH antagonist cetrorelix to mice significantly decreases the extent of ovarian damage induced by the chemotherapeutic agent Cy. The use of different substerilizing doses of Cy suggested that the extent of protection achieved by the antagonist is dose-dependent and decreases with increasing Cy doses. The results of this study may suggest a possible similar beneficial effect in women undergoing chemotherapy, can explain the discrepancy in results of existing clinical studies and indicate possible pathways for ovarian GnRH agonist protection. Further research and clinical studies are needed in order to confirm these results.
The extracorporeal treatment with donor granulocytes appeared to be well tolerated and showed promising efficacy results, encouraging further studies.
Precollection treatment of leukapheresis donors with G-CSF plus dexamethasone is an effective way to enhance the collection of PMNs with normal or near-normal functional properties for PMN transfusion therapy.
The success rate of fibrin glue application for complex anorectal fistulas without extension is 14 percent. Magnetic resonance imaging predicts outcome at an earlier stage than clinical examination.
The application of radiofrequencies to fistulectomy renders more feasible and easies the operation. Postoperative pain is smaller than traditional fistulotomy because of the lower temperatures used and for the shorter time spent in coagulating. This gives a faster wound healing. In conclusion we think that radiofrequency fistulectomy is technically more advantageous than traditional fistulotomy and furnishes better results.
Fistulotomy procedure using a radio frequency technique has significant advantages over a conventional procedure with regard to operation time, blood loss, return to normal activity, and healing time of the wound.
No advantage was found for fibrin glue over fistulotomy for simple fistulas, but fibrin glue healed more complex fistulas than conventional treatment and with higher patient satisfaction.
Initial results in the treatment of chronic anorectal fistulae using commercial fibrin sealant are optimistic, but require further support through longer follow-up data. Fibrin sealant treatment of anorectal fistulae offers a unique mode of management which is safe, simple, and easy for the surgeon to perform. By using fibrin sealant, the patient avoids the risk of fecal incontinence and the discomfort of prolonged wound healing that may be associated with fistulotomy.
The success rate for Surgisis AFP anal fistula plug for the treatment of complex anal fistulas was (13.9 percent), which is much lower than previously described. Further analysis is needed to explain significant differences in outcomes.
The current study indicates that the endorectal advancement flap provides a higher success rate than the anal fistula plug. Randomized trials are needed to further elucidate the efficacy and potential functional benefit of the anal fistula plug in the treatment of complex anal fistulas.
Closure of the primary opening of a fistula tract using a suturable biologic anal fistula plug is an effective method of treating anorectal fistulas. The method seems to be more reliable than fibrin glue closure. The greater efficacy of the fistula plug may be the result of the ability to suture the plug in the primary opening, therefore, closing the primary opening more effectively. Further prospective, long-term studies are warranted.
Although this procedure may not be appropriate for rectovaginal fistulas, the data suggest that cutting setons are effective in treating complex fistula-in-ano, including those that have failed to respond to other forms of surgery. Avoidance of preliminary internal sphincterotomy may prevent deterioration in continence.
Staged fistulotomy using a seton is a safe and effective method of treating high or complicated anorectal fistulas.
Fistulotomy with sphincter reconstruction is an effective resource in the management of complex fistula-in-ano. It improves both anal continence and manometric values in incontinent patients without compromising them in fully continent ones.
Fibrin-glue treatment of anal fistulas is successful in up to 69 percent of patients if initial failures are retreated. This sphincter-saving technique is associated with minimal complications and no functional detriment. Late recurrences are unusual.
Treatment of fistula-in-ano with fibrin sealant with closure of the internal opening was somewhat more successful than sealant with cefoxitin or the combination, however this did not achieve statistical significance. None of the three modifications were more successful than historic controls at our institution treated with sealant alone. Therefore, the addition of intra-adhesive cefoxitin, closure of the internal opening, or both are not recommended modifications of the fibrin sealant procedure.
Fistulotomy for primary fistula in ano in this retrospective study with a follow-up up to 4 years was associated with no recurrences. Eighty-two percent of patients with a high anal opening have impaired faecal continence, nevertheless patients' satisfaction is high.
Injection of fibrin glue for the treatment of perianal fistulas is safe, simple, and associated with early return to normal activity. Although moderately successful, it may preclude extensive surgery in more than one-half of these patients.
Fibrin glue is simple to use, has a minimal morbidity and should not affect later treatment options in the event of its failure. It is therefore theoretically attractive as a first line treatment in the management of those types of anal fistula in which it has been shown to work. However, further research into 'biological' glues is merited and these subject to randomised controlled study.
QOL of patients after surgical treatment of AF is unalterable on the understanding that the AF is simple and the treatment is not associated by incontinence or recurrence. Pre-operative AM is important regarding the choice of the proper surgical procedure.
Fluconazole suspension is more effective than nystatin in the treatment of thrush in immunocompromised children. Both regimens were well tolerated.
There seems to be no survival benefit of antifungal agents given prophylactically or empirically to patients with cancer complicated by neutropenia. These agents should be restricted to patients with proved infection and those in randomised trials. A large, definitive placebo controlled trial of amphotericin B is needed.
Very high surgeon volume is associated with a reduction in surgical complications. However, the association between increasing hospital volume and postoperative mortality appears to derive mainly from a full spectrum of clinical services that may facilitate the prompt recognition and treatment of complications.
Laparoscopic operation for colon cancer at hospitals with high caseloads appears to be associated with improved short-term results.
The majority of deaths after surgery for colorectal cancer occur in older patients. Hospitals that perform higher volumes of colorectal resection have lower mortality rates, especially for older patients. In the absence of other information about the quality of surgical care, provider volumes are a useful marker of postoperative outcomes for older patients in need of surgery for colorectal cancer.
These data show that surgeons with an interest in colorectal cancer achieve lower local and overall recurrence rates compared with vascular or transplant or general surgeons. Differences in local recurrence rates seem to be predominantly related to the extent of resection performed and demonstrate the need to remove an adequate specimen when performing potentially curative colorectal cancer surgery.
This analysis of a rectal cancer population found that hospital volume did not determine survival or local recurrence. Detailed clinical data with long term follow-up from cancer registries are vital to demonstrate the quality of routine care.
Operative mortality decreases with increasing hospital volume for several cancer resections. However, volume may be most important in patients who are older and at higher risk.
We conclude that optimal outcomes for rectal cancer care can be achieved by focusing on early detection and timely diagnosis, as well as adequate choice and timeliness of treatment in hospitals with optimal logistics for rectal cancer patients.
For all 3 procedure groups, the risk-adjusted in-hospital mortality is significantly lower when the procedures are performed by high-volume providers.
In this study, only risk of having a permanent colostomy during surgery for rectal cancer was significantly related to hospital case volume. When individual hospitals were analysed, a large variation in 5-year mortality was observed within the low-volume group of hospitals.
A skewed distribution of case volumes by surgeon was found in this study of patients who underwent resection for large bowel cancer in Maryland. The majority of these surgeons performed very few operations for colorectal cancer per year, whereas a minority performed >10 cases per year. Medium-volume surgeons achieved excellent outcomes similar to high-volume surgeons when operating in medium-volume or high-volume hospitals, but not in low-volume hospitals. The results of low-volume surgeons improved with increasing hospital volume but never equaled those of the high-volume surgeons.
Rectal cancer patients who underwent surgery at high-volume hospitals were less likely to have a permanent colostomy and had better survival rates than those treated in low-volume hospitals. Identifying processes of care that contribute to these differences may improve patients' outcomes in all hospitals.
After adjustment for hospital and physician characteristics, in four of the five procedures, patients treated at higher-volume hospitals had lower in-hospital mortality rates than those treated at lower-volume hospitals. Our findings confirm, for the most part, the hypothesis that better outcomes are associated with higher-volume hospitals.
Reporting quality of care is essential for ascertaining current performance status and opportunities for improvement. In our case, there is a need for the quality of the information included in clinical records to be improved, and variability in adherence to guideline recommendations to be reduced. In view of the fact that heterogeneity in the quality of the health care process was linked to hospital caseload, the health authorities have decided to reorganise the provision of rectal cancer care.
According to prospectively recorded data from a large clinical trial, patients whose colon cancer was resected at low-volume hospitals experienced a higher risk for long-term mortality; however, this increased mortality was not attributable to differences in colon cancer recurrences.
Surgical volume was a significant independent predictor for survival in patients undergoing resections for stage II colon cancers. Surgeons carrying out only 25 procedures over a 10-year period outperformed surgeons doing fewer cases.
Colorectal subspecialisation has resulted in an increased use of pre-operative radiotherapy and fewer permanent stomas. No significant improvement in surgical or oncological outcomes after rectal cancer surgery have been observed.
Greater hospital surgical volume is an independent predictor of prolonged long-term survival following surgery for both colon and rectal cancer in the VA health-care system. The volume-long-term mortality relationship is greater for rectal than for colon cancer patients, perhaps reflecting the fact that surgery for rectal cancer is more technically demanding. Future studies are needed to discover what aspects of clinical management explain these differences.
Greater surgeon and hospital volumes were associated with improved outcomes for patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. Further study of processes that led to these differences may improve the quality of colorectal cancer care.
Surgeon-specific experience as measured by procedure volume can have a significant impact on survival for patients with rectal cancer.
Both hospital and surgeon-specific procedure volume predict outcomes following colon cancer resection; but hospital volume may exert a stronger effect. Therefore, efforts to optimize the quality of colon cancer surgery should focus on multidisciplinary aspects of hospital care rather than solely on intraoperative technique.
Increased hospital procedure volume correlated with improved longterm survival for patients in Ontario who underwent some, but not all, cancer resections, whereas hospital teaching status had no significant impact on patient outcomes. Across the province, further regionalization of care may help improve the quality of some cancer procedures.
For gastrectomies and colectomies, risk-adjusted mortality is substantially lower when performed by subspecialty interested and trained surgeons, even after accounting for hospital and surgeon volume and patient characteristics. These findings may have implications for surgical training programs and for regionalization of complex surgical procedures.
This evidence suggests that the outcomes of the two main surgical procedures used in curative surgery for rectal cancer are different and that, when possible, AR should be the operation of choice. Our results show no indication of excess risk associated with this procedure compared with APR.
The surgeon's technique and skill has to focus on prevention of locoregional recurrence to achieve good long-term outcome after curative resection for rectal carcinoma. New clinical trials on adjuvant treatment have to include quality assurance for surgery and pathology and documentation of the surgeon (as local code).
Persistence of the volume-outcome relation and increasing hospital and surgeon volumes explain much of the decline over time in inpatient mortality for five of the six cancer operations studied. Concentrating cancer resections among high-volume providers should lead to further reduced inpatient mortality.
Population-based audit forms an appropriate and valuable basis for quality assurance projects. In addition to describing compliance to guidelines and pointing to process steps that can be improved, such investigations may also indicate changes due to scientific development. Linked to case-costing data, such results may form an important basis for decisions about modifications in health care.
There was no detectable caseload effect for surgeons managing colorectal cancer, but survival of patients treated in hospitals with caseloads above 33 cases per year was slightly worse than for those treated in hospitals with fewer caseloads. Imprecise measurement of clinician specific "events rates" and the lack of routinely collected case mix data present major challenges for clinical audit and governance in the years ahead.
The current study suggests that patients at low-volume hospitals may have their tumors pathologically understaged more frequently compared with patients at high- and medium-volume hospitals.
High surgeon's and hospital's annual caseloads are strong, independent prognostic factors for extending overall and disease-free survival and reducing the rate of local recurrence in 2 randomized colorectal cancer trials.
If the Leapfrog volume standards are successfully implemented, employers and health-care purchasers could prevent many surgical deaths by requiring hospital volume standards for high-risk procedures.
Initiatives to facilitate referral of patients to HVHs have the potential to reduce overall hospital mortality in California for the conditions identified. Additional study is needed to determine the extent to which selective referral is feasible and to examine the potential consequences of such initiatives.
Our pilot study has shown that within-study selective reporting may be examined qualitatively by comparing the study report with the study protocol. Our results suggest that it might well be substantial; however, the bias can only be broadly identified as protocols are not sufficiently precise.
The current stage distribution of CRC is in keeping with a predominantly unscreened population. The subsite distribution of cancer and its relationship to age and gender are similar to other high-risk countries; however, its relationship to grade of tumour has not previously been reported. An abdominoperineal resection rate of 29% reflects the mix of specialised colorectal and general surgical units treating rectal cancer in New Zealand and is in line with or better than recent overseas data that reflect national or regional practice.
The presence of clustering represents variations in outcomes among providers with similar volumes. Thus, in volume-outcome studies, the degree of clustering of outcomes should be characterized because it may provide insight into variations in quality of care.
Considerable scope exists for reducing cancer mortality in New Zealand. For a national cancer control strategy, it will be essential to clarify reasons for the high incidence of cancer and to study survival following treatment.
A short-term regimen of high-dose preoperative radiotherapy reduces rates of local recurrence and improves survival among patients with resectable rectal cancer.
In the current study, obesity was associated with higher mortality from causes other than endometrial cancer but not disease recurrence. Increased BMI was also associated with more cutaneous and less gastrointestinal toxicity in patients who received adjuvant radiation therapy. Future recommendations include lifestyle intervention trials to improve survival in obese endometrial cancer patients.
In view of the significant locoregional control benefit, radiotherapy remains indicated in Stage I endometrial carcinoma patients with high-risk features for locoregional relapse.
The results of this study suggest a continued role for the use of postoperative RT in the treatment of patients with high risk endometrial cancer and will be compared to other series with similar high-risk factors.
EBT shows acute results similar to HDR brachytherapy. Additional research is needed to further assess the clinical efficacy and safety of EBT in the treatment of endometrial cancer.
Natural killer cell activity of peripheral blood is significantly reduced in local advanced endometrial carcinoma patients. The natural cytotoxicity evaluation, as a function of therapeutic modality, may be useful in establishing a relationship between adjuvant treatment and immune status in endometrial carcinoma.
This represents one of the largest known series of high risk localized endometrial cancer treated with VB alone. The observed 3.4% locoregional recurrence compares favorably with the 5% locoregional recurrence noted among the highest risk patients receiving pelvic RT in the PORTEC, GOG 99, and Aalders randomized trials. In this single institution experience, the 3 local recurrences were salvaged. Based on these findings, we will continue to use VB alone in the adjuvant setting for patients with high risk localized endometrial cancer.
There is an increase in complete surgical staging of endometrial cancer, an increase in the use of laparoscopy, and a marked decrease in the use of pelvic RT since 1999.
Laparoscopy upholds open surgery in long-term oncologic control, reducing morbidity.
The survival of Danish ovarian cancer patients has slightly increased from 1978 through 2002. Despite this, the mortality rate of ovarian cancer in Denmark is still higher than in the other Nordic countries. Explanations for these differences are still to be identified.
Lymphadenectomy should be performed even in patients with stage IA disease. This procedure could be omitted in patients with mucinous apparent stage I disease and stage I grade 1 tumor. Lymphadenectomy should involve the whole pelvic and paraaortic chain up to the level of the left renal vein. A bilateral dissection should be performed even in cases of patients with a unilateral tumor.
Complete surgical staging in EOC patients with gross disease confined to the ovaries and pelvis should include bilateral pelvic and paraaortic lymphadenectomy. Even in patients with unilateral lesions, lymph node metastases are commonly bilateral. Bilateral ovarian lesions, positive cytology, presence of ascites, high grade histology, and serous histology are risk factors for lymph node involvement. This information may be helpful in counseling patients presenting for consideration of re-staging after unexpected findings of malignancy.
The results of this treatment regimen demonstrate that hyperfractionated radiotherapy, as delivered in this study to a total dose of 7800 cGy, is relatively well tolerated, but may result in prolonged steroid-use dependency and possible radiation-associated damage. Objective responses to treatment were seen in 34% of patients, but these results were not better than those seen at lower doses of hyperfractionated radiotherapy. There is no evidence that radiation to 7800 cGy results in improved survival for patients with diffuse intrinsic brain stem gliomas.
For patients with brain stem or thalamic gliomas, increasing the dose of radiation therapy from 72 to 78 Gy did not significantly improve survival. Different treatment strategies are clearly needed.
The low recorded total incidence in developing countries may be partly due to underascertainment. Differences in total incidence or in relative frequencies of particular histological types between Western countries and Japan and between ethnic groups in the US suggest a substantial contribution of genetic predisposition in their aetiology.
Improved public education concerning the importance of early medical attention and the value of documented cancer therapies, the wider availability of useful cancer treatments, and public policies that are sensitive to the patient's need to play a meaningful role in his or her own care are required.
Based on our fMRI study, it appears that understanding the effects of acupuncture within a neuroscience-based framework is vital. Further, we have proposed the broad sense-HPA axis hypothesis which incorporates the experimental results.
The use of CAM for cancer care in Southampton is widespread and consistent with its use nationally. There is a clearly expressed need for CAM treatments by patients and a willingness to pay. Two-thirds of the cancer care staff responding wished to receive training in and provide these therapies. There are some misconceptions among patients about the role of CAM in cancer care which need to be discussed and resolved. We believe that all cancer care units should have clear policies on the use of CAM for cancer patients.
We observed a correlation of higher prostaglandin E2 and lower beta-endorphin in symptomatic men with chronic prostatitis. Increased oxidative stress and inflammation may induce prostaglandin E2 production that would inhibit beta-endorphin release. Treatment with therapeutic agents that decrease oxidative stress, such as antibiotics and antioxidant phytotherapy, may function at least partially by increasing beta-endorphin and decreasing prostaglandin E2.
In this study of patients with breast cancer receiving high-dose chemotherapy, adjunct electroacupuncture was more effective in controlling emesis than minimal needling or antiemetic pharmacotherapy alone, although the observed effect had limited duration. JAMA. 2000;284:2755-2761.
While there is no sign of a slowing in consumer demand for TCM services, EBM has the potential to increase the legitimacy and institutional recognition of TCM, thereby encouraging the integration of TCM into the Australian health care system.
These results suggest that menstruating women who have used hormones may have an increased risk of false-negative results for screening mammograms performed in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. An increased risk of false-negative mammography might adversely affect screening efficacy. The impact of menstrual phase on mammographic interpretation, especially for women who ever used hormones, requires further investigation.
These results suggest that the radiological patterns referred to as mammographic dysplasia may influence breast cancer risk by virtue of their association with high-risk histological changes in the breast epithelium.
These results suggest that mammographic density may be strongly associated with risk of breast cancer among women with a family history of the disease. Because mammographic densities can be modified by dietary and hormonal interventions, the results suggest potential approaches to the prevention of breast cancer in women with a family history of breast cancer.
These results suggest that favourable characteristics of screen detected cases are often due to the effects of length bias on "biological factors" and fail to show that current local screening practice has succeeded in advancing the diagnosis of breast cancers to a less aggressive phase.
The current results support the commonly observed 20-30% reduction in breast carcinoma mortality with invitation to screening. The impression that screening is less effective in women younger than 50 years may be an oversimplification. Age specific effects should be a target for further research.
Mammographic screening can reduce mortality from breast carcinoma in women ages < 50 years. The mortality reduction can be substantial if high quality mammography is used and an 18-month interscreening interval is strictly adhered to.
The advent of mammography has substantially enhanced the possibilities for less radical treatment. There is an urgent need for therapeutic trials utilizing mammographic-pathological correlations to ascertain in advance which tumours can and which cannot benefit from more radical therapy.
Invitation to mammographic screening may lead to reduced mortality from breast cancer, at least in women aged 55 or over.
Breast carcinoma incidence was strongly related to diagnostic activity, especially mammographic screening. The decrease in mortality occurred in temporal relation to the introduction of screening and adjuvant therapy, making a causal relation likely. The difference in results between Malmö and the rest of Sweden indicates an important role for screening in mortality reduction.
The examinations and investigation carried out after false positive mammography --especially in women under 50--and the cost of these procedures are a neglected but substantial problem.
Women aged 65 or more who are regularly screened can expect a reduced risk of dying from breast cancer.
The methods involving more explicit modelling of the disease process and fewer assumptions tended to find higher estimates of predictive value in the Two-County study. The results suggest that previously poor sensitivity and predictive value estimates may have been overpessimistic.
Breast cancer mortality is a valid end point and mammographic screening does indeed reduce mortality from breast cancer. The criticisms of the Swedish Two-County Trial are unfounded.
These results suggest that the policy often adopted of annual screening for woman aged 40-49, with a family history of breast cancer, is a reasonable one, and that it may also be necessary to shorten the inter-screening interval to one year in women aged over 50 but with a positive family history.
Invitation to screening was associated with a reduction in deaths from all causes among breast cancer cases, consistent with high participation rates in screening. There is no significant evidence of bias in cause of death classification in the Two-County Trial, and as breast cancer mortality is the targeted clinical outcome in breast cancer screening, it is the appropriate end point in a breast cancer screening trial. All-cause mortality is a poor and inefficient surrogate for breast cancer mortality.
A major difficulty in screening women aged 40-49 is the rapid progression of a subset of tumours arising in this age group. Shortening the screening interval from two years would be necessary to achieve a higher mortality reduction.
These results suggest that much, although not all, of the smaller effect of screening on mortality in women aged 40-49 years is due to faster progression of a substantial proportion of tumors in this age group and the rapid increase in incidence during this decade of life. It is concluded that the interval between screenings should be shortened to achieve a greater benefit in this age group. It is estimated that a 19% reduction in mortality would result from an annual screening regime.
The substantial and significant mortality benefit of invitation to mammographic screening in women aged 40-74 is maintained at 18 years of follow-up. To achieve a substantial mortality benefit at an early stage in the screening program in women aged under 50 years, an interscreening interval of 12-18 months would be required.
The number needed to screen to save one life is smaller than has been reported in the past. Mammographic screening is effective in absolute terms as well as relative. Long-term follow-up allowed us to estimate the absolute benefit with greater accuracy.
The results of the current study suggest that long-term survival in women with invasive breast carcinoma could be modelled satisfactorily using either frailty models or Cox regression models with time-varying coefficients. The results also suggest that the value of tumor grade, lymph node status, and tumor size at the time of diagnosis have a lasting influence on subsequent survival, albeit attenuated in later years. The long-term effects of these prognostic factors may explain the fact that the impact of mass screening programs on breast carcinoma mortality rates is still apparent many years later.
Risk factor screening for major diseases such as cardiovascular disease, alcohol abuse, diabetes mellitus and breast cancer, and subsequent treatment of the detected risk factors/diseases - The Malmö Preventive Project - did not reduce total mortality in the intervention group as a whole. In subjects under 40 years of age at entry, total mortality was lower in the intervention group than in the control group. In men, this seemed to be due to a reduction of alcohol-related deaths, whilst in women death from cancer was reduced.
These positive results of intermediate measures suggest that, in Asian communities, screening mammography could be an important modality for detecting early stage breast carcinoma. However, the low compliance rates suggest that health education efforts must focus on issues related to acceptability if such programs are to succeed.
Although few women 50 years of age or older have risks from mammography that outweigh the benefits, the evidence suggests that more women 40 to 49 years of age have such risks.
Awareness of the national screening program is high, but some women do not know the purpose of screening, the target age group and the recommended screening interval. Compliance with screening is good among women in the target age group; many women in their 40s are also participating in screening.
Clinicians document concern about breast cancer in 10% of women who have false-positive mammograms, and subsequent use of health care services are increased among women with false-positive mammogram results.
Seven statistical models showed that both screening mammography and treatment have helped reduce the rate of death from breast cancer in the United States.
Because more noncancer deaths occurred shortly after diagnosis, it appears that this excess was caused by treatment of the cancer. Generally, cancer-specific death rates underestimate the mortality associated with a diagnosis of cancer. Therefore, because the degree of underestimation changes with time, an examination solely of cancer-caused mortality in assessing progress against the disease is incomplete.
One third of women could have at least one false positive recall over 10 biennial screens. Women participating in screening programmes should be informed about this risk, especially those with associated factors.
The increased risk of breast cancer associated with the use of estrogen plus progestin declined markedly soon after discontinuation of combined hormone therapy and was unrelated to changes in frequency of mammography.
The cumulative risk of a false-positive mammogram over time varies substantially, depending on a woman's own risk profile and on several factors related to radiologic screening. By the ninth mammogram, the risk can be as low as 5% for women with low-risk variables and as high as 100% for women with multiple high-risk factors.
Over 10 years, one third of women screened had an abnormal test result that required additional evaluation, even though no breast cancer was present. Techniques are needed to decrease false positive results while maintaining high sensitivity. Physicians should educate women about the risk of a false positive result from a screening test for breast cancer.
Incidence rates of DCIS of the breast have increased dramatically since 1983. This increase correlates with the widespread adoption of modern mammographic screening. While early detection of invasive breast cancer is beneficial, the value of DCIS detection is currently unknown. There is cause for concern about the large number of DCIS cases that are being diagnosed as a consequence of screening mammography, most of which are treated by some form of surgery. In addition, the proportion of cases treated by mastectomy may be inappropriately high, particularly in some areas of the United States.
For women aged 40-49, randomized controlled trials of breast cancer screening show no benefit 5-7 years after entry. At 10-12 years, benefit is uncertain and, if present, marginal; thereafter, it is unknown. For women aged 50-69, screening reduces breast cancer mortality by about a third. Currently available data for women age 70 or older are inadequate to judge the effectiveness of screening.
These analyses suggest little, if any, benefit for women under 50 years of age. The results are not explained by the quality of the trials or the radiology. We recommend that women in this age group intending to be screened should be fully informed of these results.
False-positive recalls are a disadvantage in a breast cancer screening programs, but the cumulative risk seemed to be acceptable in the Norwegian Breast Cancer Screening Program. It is important to communicate the existence and extent of this risk to the target group.
The conclusion that invitation to mammography screening reduces breast cancer mortality remains robust. Disagreements were mainly due to study design issues, while disagreements about cause of death were a minority. When secondary research does not adhere to the protocols of the primary research projects, the consequences of such design differences should be investigated and reported. Register linkage of trials can add follow-up information. The precision of trials with modest size is enhanced by individual monitoring of case status and outcome status such as determination of cause of death.
In the randomized, controlled trials, mammography reduced breast cancer mortality rates among women 40 to 74 years of age. Greater absolute risk reduction was seen among older women. Because these results incorporate several rounds of screening, the actual number of mammograms needed to prevent one death from breast cancer is higher. In addition, each screening has associated risks and costs.
The information material provided by professional advocacy groups and governmental organisations is information poor and severely biased in favour of screening. Few websites live up to accepted standards for informed consent such as those stated in the General Medical Council's guidelines.
The increase in incidence of breast cancer was closely related to the introduction of screening and little of this increase was compensated for by a drop in incidence of breast cancer in previously screened women. One in three breast cancers detected in a population offered organised screening is overdiagnosed.
Cancer registry data for quality measurement may not be valid for all care settings, but registries could provide the infrastructure for collecting data on the quality of cancer care. We urge that funding be increased to augment data collection by cancer registries.
Initial treatment may influence the underlying cause of death reported in vital statistics for prostate cancer patients.
Our study showed that a relatively robust prediction of the risk of a false-positive test over 10 screens can be calculated in a simple way relatively early after the start of a mammography screening programme.
The cause of death pattern in the invited group was, except for breast cancer, very similar to that in the control group, showing that the groups were comparable. Similarly, the total mortality including breast cancer mortality in the control group was almost identical to that in Swedish women in general. The same was true, with the exception of breast cancer, for the invited group. These observations confirm that the trial cohorts are representative of Swedish women and indicate that the quantitative results from these trials may safely be generalised to the Swedish populations.
Some recently published cluster randomised trials may not have taken adequate precautions to guard against threats to the internal validity of their design.
Women are aware of false positives and seem to view them as an acceptable consequence of screening mammography. In contrast, most women are unaware that screening can detect cancers that may never progress but feel that such information would be relevant. Education should perhaps focus less on false positives and more on the less familiar outcome of detection of ductal carcinoma in situ.
These results suggest that screening mammography in women ages 40 to 49 years at entry can reduce mortality from breast cancer when combined with adequate follow-up.
Recall and negative open surgical biopsy rates are twice as high in US settings than in the United Kingdom but cancer detection rates are similar. Efforts to improve US mammographic screening should target lowering the recall rate without reducing the cancer detection rate.
Regular mammographic screening resulted in a 63% reduction in breast carcinoma death among women who actually underwent screening. The policy of invitation to organized screening with mammography appears to have reduced breast carcinoma mortality by 50% in these 2 counties.
A substantial reservoir of DCIS is undetected during life. How hard pathologists look for the disease and, perhaps, their threshold for making the diagnosis are potentially important factors in determining how many cases of DCIS are diagnosed. The latter has important implications for what it means to have the disease.
Our study adds further evidence to the proposal that the WE study is biased and not valid.
Without screening one third of all invasive breast cancers in the age group 50-69 years would not have been detected in the patients' lifetime. This level of overdiagnosis is larger than previously reported.
Because the cumulative incidence among controls never reached that of the screened group, it appears that some breast cancers detected by repeated mammographic screening would not persist to be detectable by a single mammogram at the end of 6 years. This raises the possibility that the natural course of some screen-detected invasive breast cancers is to spontaneously regress.
Only 1.7% of patients in our study receiving urate-oxidase during their induction chemotherapy needed renal dialysis. Urate-oxidase was well tolerated, and used as prophylaxis and/or treatment of hyperuricemia and tumor lysis syndrome consistently gave a lower rate of renal and metabolic complications than in other series of similar patients.
Rasburicase is highly effective for prevention and management of hyperuricemia in adults at risk for TLS. Single-dose rasburicase was effective in most patients; only a subset of high-risk patients required a second dose.
In conclusion, rasburicase, in addition to the demonstrated clinical benefit, is an economically attractive new option in the treatment of HU, both in adults and children. In prevention the drug has an attractive economic profile in children, and is cost-effective in adults with ALL and NHL.
The results of the current study confirm that rasburicase is safe and highly effective in the prevention and treatment of chemotherapy-induced hyperuricemia in both children and adults.
A shorter course of rasburicase treatment, including single-dose injection, is feasible and will improve the cost-effectiveness profile of the otherwise expensive compound.
In addition to allopurinol, hydration, and urinary alkalinization, rasburicase is a new alternative for the treatment and prevention of hyperuricemia in patients with hematologic malignancies. Its rapid onset of action and the ability to lower preexisting elevated uric acid levels are the advantages of rasburicase compared with allopurinol. It may allow the patient to receive chemotherapy treatment without delay.
Monthly palliative pelvic radiotherapy results in satisfactory control of symptoms in patients with locally advanced carcinoma of cervix with acceptable complications.
These results suggest that prevention initiatives should be comprehensive to include education and resources needs assessments and improvement, Pap smear test training, strategies on costing, and practitioner time studies.
Rectal instillation of 4% formalin is a simple, inexpensive, and efficient treatment for refractory hemorrhagic radiation proctitis.
Laparoscopic ligature of the hypogastric artery can replace laparotomy in patients with advanced cervical cancer and persistent bleeding. The laparoscopic procedure is less traumatic than laparotomy and enables the continuation of external radiotherapy without delay.
The use of Mohs' paste is safe and convenient for massive genital bleeding from the uterine cervix or vaginal stump due to recurrent gynecologic cancer. However, our study does have some limitations including the small number of enrolled subjects and heterogeneous cancer types.
Patients in U and P arms had higher progression/relapse-free survival rate. There are some suggestions of some improvement in overall survival rate.
HDTwith ASCT compared to standard treatment prolonged remission and survival after first progression of FL patients.
Our study provides evidence that the distribution of NHL subtypes differs by geographic region. These findings suggest that geographical differences in etiologic or host factors may be responsible for the observed differences in the distribution of cases across NHL subtypes.
There have been changes in the demographic groups impacted by NHL. The trends for human immunodeficiency virus probably are related to recent decreases in NHL incidence among males aged 25-54 years. The rate change in the older white population is unexplained but represents both an alleviation of the burden of NHL in this population and a potential opportunity to generate hypotheses regarding risk factors for the development of NHL.
Findings from our large, population-based study reveal differing demographic patterns and incidence trends according to histologic group. Future descriptive and analytic investigations should evaluate NHL risks according to subtype, as defined by histology and new classification criteria.
After adjusting for all parameters with an impact on FFS and OS, the results of multivariate analysis suggest that rituximab therapy has a favorable effect on the prognosis of follicular lymphoma. The data show that FFS and OS have significantly improved in advanced-stage follicular lymphoma patients treated on GISL protocols during the last 18 years. These improvements are related to evolving front-line and salvage therapies, particularly the introduction of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy.
Sustained release, oral morphine at low dosage provides significant symptomatic improvement in refractory dyspnoea in the community setting.
Transverse coloplasty pouch reconstruction after total mesorectal excision leads to good functional results and is not associated with stool evacuation problems. Urgency and incontinence correlate rather with impaired pelvic floor movement than with pouch size or anal sphincter tonus.
Combining WB with RS had more benefits than did WB alone. This finding may have important implications for the dietary modulation of luminal contents, especially in the distal colon (the most common site of tumor formation).
The co-administration of oral naloxone PR with oxycodone PR improves patient assessment of analgesic opioid therapy for severe chronic pain, in terms of both efficacy and tolerability.
The combination of antegrade irrigation via a colonic conduit or an antegrade continence enema procedure provides a successful outcome for some patients when incorporated into total anorectal reconstruction, provided that sepsis does not occur, thus avoiding permanent stoma formation. The combination of these procedures may represent an improvement in total anorectal reconstruction and warrants further clinical trial.
Current approaches to assessing constipation in palliative care are very different to those recommended by gastroenterology guidelines. However, modified approaches may be tolerable to palliative care patients and offer the chance of developing targeted palliation.
This survey shows that clinically relevant symptoms are frequent and that one-third to half of the patients with a symptom observed as moderate or severe do not receive any treatment aimed to reduce the symptom intensity. Several symptoms and treatments differed between WHO-groups, cancer diagnoses, metastasis locations, countries, and genders. Prescription practice varied between countries both in terms of medication administered and percent of patients receiving specific treatment.
This study has shown that a stool form scale can be used to monitor change in intestinal function. Such scales have utility in both clinical practice and research.
Abdominal fascial closure with a continuous nonabsorbable suture had a significantly lower rate of incisional hernia. The ideal suture is nonabsorbable, and the ideal technique is continuous.
The current practice of abdominal fascial closure among Ontario general surgeons is in disagreement with the findings from a recent meta-analysis, recommending a nonabsorbable suture for a 32% relative risk reduction in the incisional hernia rate. The majority of surgeons employ a continuous absorbable closure in common surgical scenarios. A definitive randomized controlled trial comparing continuous nonabsorbable closure versus continuous absorbable closure is warranted.
Severe obesity is a greater risk factor for incisional hernia and hernia recurrence than chronic steroid use in nonobese colitis patients. A prefascial polypropylene mesh repair minimizes recurrence.
There was wide variation in the surgical techniques used by obstetricians for caesarean section operations. There is an urgent need for future research to evaluate many aspects of caesarean section operations on substantive short- and long-term outcomes.
Continuous closures with nonabsorbable suture should be used to close most abdominal wounds. However, if infection or distention is anticipated, interrupted absorbable sutures are preferred. Mass closures are superior to layered closures.
Ondansetron offers superior antiemetic control over the combination of perphenazine and diphenhydramine for children undergoing high-dose chemotherapy with or without total body irradiation for BMT.
Vomiting induced by intrathecal chemotherapy can be greatly reduced by the intravenous administration of ondansetron before the procedure, and severe vomiting can be virtually eliminated.
1. TROP was more cost-effective than CPM-DEX. 2. Taking into account the patients' analytic perspective is essential when we compare antiemetics pharmacoeconomically. 3. It seems necessary to increase the effectiveness of TROP in pediatric patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy with strategies such as the addition of a steroid.
The combination of dexamethasone plus ondansetron is more effective in protecting chemotherapy-naive patients undergoing their first course of highly emetogenic chemotherapy with cisplatin and chemotherapy-pretreated patients refractory to standard antiemetics from chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting compared to ondansetron plus placebo.
Based on this pilot study, we believe that the high likelihood that metopimazine is an effective adjunct to ondansetron monotherapy suggests that this combination therapy is worthy of further study in children receiving emetogenic chemotherapy.
We present an evidence basis for prescribing prophylactic antiemetics to children undergoing chemotherapy. Prescribing practices in these two centres treating Welsh children were similar. Both differed from the evidence basis we propose. Deviations were greatest for regimens of high emetogenicity, where effective emetic control is most crucial.
Ondansetron has shown good efficacy in the prevention of acute nausea and vomiting in children receiving moderately or highly emetogenic chemotherapy and/or irradiation, particularly when combined with dexamethasone. In the chemotherapy setting, ondansetron is significantly better than metoclopramide and chlorpromazine and has a more favourable tolerability profile. In children undergoing surgery, ondansetron demonstrated superior prophylactic antiemetic efficacy compared with placebo, droperidol and metoclopramide, and was relatively free of adverse events. Ondansetron is thus an effective first-line antiemetic in children undergoing chemotherapy, radiotherapy and surgery.
Nausea and emesis remain significant problems among children who receive emetogenic chemotherapy. CP rates were associated significantly with patient age, and higher rates were observed among very young children.
These data indicate the need to carefully address the timing of glucocorticoid use in the clinical management of cancer patients.
With the exception of CAM systematic reviews, the quality of recently published systematic reviews is less than optimal. Language inclusive/LOE systematic reviews appear to be a marker for a better quality systematic review. Language restrictions do not appear to bias the estimates of a conventional intervention's effectiveness. However, there is substantial bias in the results of a CAM systematic review if LOE reports are excluded from it.
Children cited concerns regarding pleasures taken away as well as pain inflicted due to cancer treatment. In addition to traditionally mentioned side effects, children complained of difficulty enjoying food and restricted social activity. To improve the quality of life of children with cancer, healthcare providers should focus on potentially modifiable variables including food-related pleasure, hospital aesthetics, and social activity.
We believe this enhancement to funnel plots (i) is simple to implement, (ii) is widely applicable, (iii) greatly improves interpretability, and (iv) should be used routinely.
The duration of seroma fluid accumulation is not altered by the placement of a suction drain following axillary lymphadenectomy.
The findings support our previous assumption that policies in this field seem to be based primarily on clinical experience and opinions rather than on evidence-based clinical guidelines. We conclude that the clinical usefulness and validity of the model for dental decision support should now be tested and that it could also serve as a training tool.
Although previous studies have shown that many of the effects of cancer treatment disappear between 1 and 3 years, this study shows that the dental status has a persistent impact on subjective quality of life.
We conclude that rHuEPO is safe and effective for reversing anemia related to advanced cancer or to chemotherapy for cancer.
The available data suggest a high probability of favourable cost-utility outcomes with epoetin-alfa treatment for anaemia in patients with stage IV breast cancer receiving nonplatinum-containing chemotherapy. Additional studies are warranted.
The addition of Epo to definitive radiotherapy for SCCHN did not improve outcomes. The study was not specifically designed to detect a potential negative association between Epo and tumor progression/survival.
RhEPO administration at a dose of 5000 IU daily s.c. increases hemoglobin levels and reduces transfusion requirements in chemotherapy-induced anemia, especially during platinum-based chemotherapy.
Improvements in fatigue were associated significantly with reductions in anxiety and depression. For patients with anemia, fatigue can be improved or reversed with darbepoetin alfa therapy. Thus, less fatigued patients also may benefit from reduced levels of anxiety and depression.
Patients with chemotherapy-associated anemia can safely and effectively be treated with weekly darbepoetin alfa therapy. Darbepoetin alfa decreased blood transfusion requirements, increased hemoglobin concentration, and decreased fatigue. Although no conclusions can be drawn about survival from this study, the potential salutary effect on disease outcome warrants further investigation in a prospectively designed study.
These findings show that initiating treatment at haemoglobin levels both <10 g/dl and > or =10-11 g/dl results in substantial clinical benefits, supporting the use of erythropoietic therapy also in patients with mild anaemia.
rHuEPO at a dose of 10,000 U thrice weekly prevents transfusions and development of significant anemia in patients with solid tumors receiving platinum-based chemotherapy.
Patients with chemotherapy-induced anemia can safely and effectively be treated with 500 microg of darbepoetin alfa every 3 weeks.
Preoperative epoetin alfa (300 IU/day) increases hemoglobin levels and hematocrit in colorectal surgery patients. These effects are associated with a reduced need for perioperative and postoperative transfusions.
Discrepancies between objective and subjective self-reported measures may be either fundamental or indicate scoring limitations for evaluation of therapeutic results. Present results demonstrate a clinical benefit of erythropoietin treatment in cancer patients with subnormal to normal hemoglobin levels, whereas the patients' own subjective scoring was insufficient to sense such improvements. The discrepancy may be either fundamental or methodological but emphasizes the importance to document therapeutic outcome in both subjective and objective perspectives in palliative care of cancer patients.
Our results support that reported risk to accelerate disease progression by EPO treatment in palliative care is not justified in patients with solid, gastrointestinal cancer despite tumour presence of EPO receptor protein.
There was significantly less anemia and transfusions were reduced by 50% in patients randomized to receive EPO during chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin.
EPO disposition in our patients was similar to other pediatric patient populations or adults receiving IV EPO. Interesting but insignificant trends were noted in pharmacodynamic effects.
Darbepoetin alpha, given as a front-loaded dose for 4 weeks and followed by lower and/or less frequent doses, appears to be efficacious and may decrease the time to response relative to treatment with rHuEPO.
Low hemoglobin levels can be safely and quickly corrected with rhEPO. This may improve the effectiveness of radiotherapy.
Extended dosing (80 000 U Q2W) and once-weekly dosing (40 000 U QW) of EPO provided comparable safety and efficacy for chemotherapy-induced anemia.
Darbepoetin alfa was effective when administered as either a fixed dose or a weight-based dose using a front-loading approach to rapidly correct anemia and effectively maintain hemoglobin levels in patients with anemia who had malignant disease.
Epoetin beta is shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of anemia in many patients with HRPC. It is found to improve QoL and physical functioning, and relieve fatigue symptoms, in many of these critically ill patients.
Darbepoetin alfa can be administered i.v. or s.c. at equal doses for the treatment of anemia in this setting.
Patients with gastrointestinal tract cancer and mild anemia benefit from perioperative erythropoietin administration in terms of stimulated erythropoiesis, reduction in the number of blood transfusions, and a favorable outcome.
A correction/maintenance schedule with its initial two-fold higher weekly dosing and subsequent Q3W dosing yielded outcomes similar to those observed with a weekly schedule. Although correction/maintenance dosing provided no incremental clinical benefit, Q3W dosing could provide benefits of convenience and facilitate patient compliance.
r-huEPO had an effect in preventing anemia in patients with NSCLC who had cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Once-weekly epoetin-beta 36,000 IU for 12 weeks was well tolerated and significantly increased hemoglobin levels in anemic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
Treatment with EPO and iron significantly reduces PRBC transfusions in pediatric patients receiving concomitant chemotherapy for malignant sarcomas. A decrease in the number of platelet transfusions was also seen and deserves further study.
Early hemoglobin response is significantly associated with various metrics of clinical response to erythropoietic agents and is an appropriate measure for evaluating treatment effects.
T-FHX is an active and tolerable regimen inducing local tumor control and promising survival with organ preservation in high-risk patients. One h infusion of paclitaxel simplified the regimen without compromising efficacy. Addition of erythropoietin does not reduce the need for transfusion with this nonplatinum-containing regimen. T-FHX should be advanced to a randomized trial and compared with a cisplatin-based concomitant regimen.
Treating mild anemia immediately with epoetin alfa during chemotherapy for hematologic malignancy significantly improved QOL, productivity, and hemoglobin compared with delaying treatment until the hemoglobin level decreases to < 9.0 g/dL.
The data from this study suggest that this dosing regimen of epoetin alfa is effective and safe in pediatric cancer patients with chemotherapy-related anemia. Further studies with epoetin alfa in more children with different chemotherapy regimens are needed.
In patients with clinically evident congestive heart failure or ischemic heart disease who are receiving hemodialysis, administration of epoetin to raise their hematocrit to 42 percent is not recommended.
Erythropoietin treatment may reduce the risk for blood transfusions and improve hematologic response in cancer patients. However, our favorable survival outcome is in contrast to two large (N = 351 and 939) recently published randomized controlled trials in which erythropoietin-treated patients had statistically significantly worse survival than untreated patients. Possible reasons for the disparity with our results include differences in study population and design, higher target hemoglobin levels and higher risk of thromboembolic complications, and concerns that erythropoietin may stimulate tumor growth.
Anemia is associated with shorter survival times for patients with lung carcinoma, cervicouterine carcinoma, head and neck carcinoma, prostate carcinoma, lymphoma, and multiple myeloma.
The use of epoetin alfa does not reduce the incidence of red-cell transfusion among critically ill patients, but it may reduce mortality in patients with trauma. Treatment with epoetin alfa is associated with an increase in the incidence of thrombotic events. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
With a set number of sites and patients, the most efficient way to reduce trial costs and still meet the trial's scientific objectives is to reduce management complexity. Modest changes in management parameters release significant monies to answer more research questions.
This study analyzes Epo/EpoR expression and their relationship with intratumoral pO(2) levels as well as with survival in patients with cervical cancer. The data suggest a critical role of the endogenous Epo/EpoR system in cervical cancer.
There is some evidence that treatment of cancer-related fatigue with methylphenidate appears to be effective. More robust evidence indicates that treatment with hematopoietic agents appears to relieve cancer-related fatigue caused by chemotherapy-induced anemia. Further confirmatory trials are required for both observations.
The correlation of Epo/EpoR expression with angiogenesis and tumour progression suggests the presence of a loop in the Epo-EpoR system. Epo is secreted by tumour cells and affects vascular endothelial cells via its receptor, promoting tumour angiogenesis in a paracrine manner. Data suggest that Epo represents an important mediator in NB angiogenesis. Understanding the mechanisms of NB angiogenesis provides the basis for a rational approach to the development of antiangiogenic therapy in patients affected by NB.
Our approach based on fractional polynomials should be considered as an important alternative to the traditional approaches for the analysis of continuous variables in epidemiological studies.
Although IPD meta-analyses have many advantages in assessing the effects of health care, there are several aspects that could be further developed to make fuller use of the potential of these time-consuming projects. In particular, IPD could be used to more fully investigate the influence of covariates on heterogeneity of treatment effects, both within and between trials. The impact of heterogeneity, or use of random effects, are seldom discussed. There is thus considerable scope for enhancing the methods of analysis and presentation of IPD meta-analysis.
The use of a target hemoglobin level of 13.5 g per deciliter (as compared with 11.3 g per deciliter) was associated with increased risk and no incremental improvement in the quality of life. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
These investigations suggest that under normal conditions all three methods provide similar results. For moderate heterogeneity coverage for all the three fixed effects models depreciates.
This study suggests that cHb values of between 12 and 14 g/dl are optimal with regard to the oxygenation status in the tumor entities investigated, a finding which may have far-reaching implications in the clinical setting.
Epo is effective in improving haematological response and reducing RBCT requirements, and appears to have a positive effect on HRQoL. The incidence of side-effects and effects on survival remains highly uncertain. However, if there is no impact on survival, it seems highly unlikely that epo would be considered a cost-effective use of healthcare resources. The main target for further research should be improving estimates of impact on survival, initially through more detailed secondary research, such as the individual patient data meta-analysis started by the Cochrane group. Further trials may be required, and have been recommended by the FDA, although many trials are in progress, completed but unreported or awaiting mature follow-up. The Birmingham epo model developed as part of this project contains new features that improve its flexibility in exploring different scenarios; further refinement and validation would therefore be of assistance. Finally, further research to resolve uncertainty about other parameters, particularly quality of life, adverse events, and the rate of normalisation, would also be beneficial.
Patients with cervical carcinoma who received chemoradiotherapy and rHuEpo had an increased risk of symptomatic venous thrombosis.
Our data support use of an intense follow-up plan after primary resection of large-bowel cancer, at least in patients with rectal cancer.
Yearly colonoscopy, liver CT, and chest radiography will not improve survival from colorectal cancer when added to symptom and simple screening review.
Risk-adapted follow-up has significantly improved the targeting of curative re-operations and overall survival of patients independently of risk of recurrence and has allowed a reduction in the costs of following up of disease-free patients.
This meta-analysis indicated that intensive follow-up using CEA assays can identify treatable recurrences at a relatively early stage. Treatment of these recurrences appears to be associated with improved 5-year survival rates. However, not all intensive follow-up strategies will be equally effective. Follow-up may yield the best results if diagnostic tests are used only to detect those recurrences that can be operated on with curative intent and when follow-up is "individualized," according to patient characteristics.
According to the currently available literature, repetitive follow-up laboratory and radiologic testing, except for nonseminomatous germ cell tumors, does not detect the vast majority of cancer relapses, nor does it result in a greater chance of cure or prolonged survival. The majority of recurrences at all disease sites will first be recognized as symptomatic changes in the patient's condition or alterations in the physical examination. A limited panel of blood tests and radiographic studies to detect recurrences, metachronous disease, and complications of therapy (malignant and nonmalignant), will suffice for most cancers. Though data are limited, this more restrictive policy of follow-up testing does not appear to adversely impact patient quality of life and result in dramatic cost of savings to the health care system.
CEA measurement was the most cost-effective test in detecting potentially curable recurrent disease. Physician visits were useful only in the evaluation of symptoms; a routine physician examination had no added benefit.
CEA was the first indicator of recurrent disease in 58 percent of all patients and in 80 percent of patients with liver metastases. The diagnosis of recurrent disease may be made several months earlier by investigating the first abnormal CEA level, although any benefit in terms of survival remains to be proven.
Careful postoperative monitoring is expensive yet effective when one considers that one-quarter of the detected recurrences were suitable for potentially curative second surgery; however, only 3.6% of the original group were effectively cured. Follow-up programs should be tailored according to the stage and site of the primary to reduce costs.
Follow-up after potential curative surgery for CRC appears to be widely practised in New Zealand. There is, however, considerable variation between surgeons in the frequency, duration and type of follow-up. This may reflect the conflicting evidence in the literature on the value of follow-up. The outcome of current large prospective randomised trials may confirm whether or not such follow-up is worthwhile and what form it should take.
This trial should provide the first evidence based on an adequately powered randomized trial to determine the optimal follow-up strategy for colorectal cancer patients. This trial is open to US centers, and recruitment continues.
Cancer cures attributable to CEA monitoring are, at best, infrequent. It is questionable whether this small gain justifies the substantial cost in dollars and physical and emotional stress that this intervention may cause for patients.
Based on the available data and current costs, intensive follow up after curative resection for colorectal cancer is economically justified and should be normal practice. There is a continuing need to evaluate the efficacy of specific surveillance tools: this study forms the basis for economic evaluations in such trials.
Charges vary extensively across follow-up strategies, with no indication that higher-cost strategies increase survival or quality of life.
The type of cancer-related pain appears to influence the mood states and QOL of outpatients with cancer.
The PRO-SELF Program has made an important contribution in enhancing patients' self-care and reducing morbidity. It has the potential to contribute to self-care abilities of children and adolescents who have cancer.
The PRO-SELF Pain Control Program was an effective approach to increase patients' knowledge of cancer pain management.
Combined WBRT and radiosurgery for patients with two to four brain metastases significantly improves control of brain disease. WBRT alone does not provide lasting and effective care for most patients.
Omission of up-front WBRT does not seem to compromise length of survival in patients treated with RS for newly diagnosed brain metastases.
Despite the inherent biases to select more favorable patients for SRS, the RPA class retains its prognostic value. Omission of WBRT from the initial management was not detrimental in terms of overall survival; however, progressive disease occurred in over 50% of patients treated in this manner. Further studies are required to determine which, if any, patients should be considered for SRS with WBRT held in reserve.
The omission of WBRT in the initial management of patients treated with RS for up to 4 brain metastases does not appear to compromise survival or intracranial control allowing for salvage therapy as indicated. A randomized trial of RS vs. RS + WBRT is needed to assess survival, quality of life, and cost in good-prognosis patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases.
A short course of locally applied RA can reverse CIN II, but not more advanced dysplasia, with acceptable local side effects.
Chromosome 9 polysomy appears to be a marker of genetic instability that can be used in chemoprevention trials as a surrogate endpoint biomarker. In this randomized trial of 4-HPR, the chromosome 9 polysomy measurements supported the clinical histopathologic reading in a quantitative manner suggesting that 4-HPR at 200 mg/day may have been inhibiting the regression seen in the placebo arm by inducing genetic instability.
Daily treatment with high doses of isotretinoin is effective in preventing second primary tumors in patients who have been treated for squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck, although it does not prevent recurrences of the original tumor.
Psychologic interventions as delivered and studied here can improve survival.
This intervention may have facilitated a "recovery or maintenance" of Th1 cytokine regulation during or after the adjuvant therapy period. Behavioral interventions that address dysregulated neuroendocrine function could play a clinically significant role in optimizing host immunologic resistance during a vulnerable period.
Structured, group-based cognitive behavior stress management may ameliorate cancer-related anxiety during active medical treatment for breast cancer and for 1 year following treatment. Group-based cognitive behavior stress management is a clinically useful adjunct to offer to women treated for breast cancer.
In this pilot study, the couple-based intervention, RE, has shown promise in improving individual, medical, and relationship functioning for couples in which the woman is facing breast cancer, and therefore merits further investigation on a larger scale.
This study provides no evidence of reduction in distress as the result of a brief supportive-expressive intervention for women with primary breast cancer. Future studies might productively focus on women with higher initial levels of distress.
Although this initial RCT is a small study, MAAT participants appear to improve on one measure of quality of life and verbal memory performance relative to no treatment controls and rate MAAT with high satisfaction. These data are encouraging and support the continued development and evaluation of MAAT efficacy.
The results of this study suggest that a short term psychosocial group intervention produces significant long term improvement in the quality of life of Japanese patients with primary breast carcinoma.
Telephone counseling may provide a viable method for extending psychosocial services to cancer survivors nationwide.
Findings of the study suggest that most survivors adjusted fairly well in mental, psychological, and social aspects. Survivors with a higher risk of poor HRQOL could benefit from appropriate screening and counseling at an early stage to mitigate their survivorship difficulties. Prospective follow-up studies on childhood cancer survivors are recommended to detect changes over longer survival periods.
In this study, the authors documented the benefits of a therapeutic group by teleconference, a novel way to provide support for African American women with breast cancer. Further research should include a behavioral outcome, such as treatment adherence.
The findings of our study suggest that the problem-solving therapy program has potential to be effective for alleviating psychological distress experienced by Japanese early-stage breast cancer patients. The true effectiveness of the program should be confirmed by a future randomized control trial.
BATD and problem-solving interventions represent practical interventions that may improve psychological outcomes and quality of life among depressed breast cancer patients. Study limitations and future research directions are discussed.
A 6-week dyadic peer support intervention was feasible and effective for increasing self-efficacy for self-management among newly diagnosed breast cancer patients in Korea. However, this intervention did not improve other psychological outcomes.
Among BC survivors within 18 months of treatment completion, a 6-week MBSR(BC) program resulted in significant improvements in psychological status and quality of life compared with usual care.
The use of relaxation techniques and guided imagery is effective in reducing the levels of anxiety, depression and body discomfort in patients who must remain isolated while undergoing brachytherapy. This simple and inexpensive intervention enhances the psychological wellness in patients undergoing brachytherapy.State: This study has passed Ethical Committee review.
These results are consistent with prior clinical trials and suggest that short-term psychosocial interventions that encourage the expression of emotions, provide social support, and teach coping skills can influence survival among cancer patients. However, self-selection bias cannot be ruled out as an alternative explanation for the results. These interventions merit further consideration and research.
This is the first experiment to test whether psychological treatment effective in reducing depressive symptoms would also reduce indicators of inflammation. Data show that the intervention reduced directly depressive symptoms and reduced indirectly inflammation. Psychological treatment may treat effectively depressive symptoms, pain, and fatigue among cancer patients.
Emotional expression is feasible for patients with cancer, but the efficacy of the intervention in improving mood and decreasing cognitive intrusion and avoidance was not supported. Emotional expression processes were consistent with those seen in other samples and may influence outcomes that were not addressed in this study.
The findings provide additional evidence that low socioeconomic status and high socioecologic stress exacerbate negative QOL sequelae.
The evidence supports the conclusion that psychoeducational interventions reduce depressive symptoms in patients with cancer and that behavior therapy or counseling alone or in combination with cancer education is beneficial.
Spousal and dyad coping are important factors in a patient's adjustment to breast cancer.
MBSR participation was associated with enhanced quality of life and decreased stress symptoms in breast and prostate cancer patients. This study is also the first to show changes in cancer-related cytokine production associated with program participation.
Small differences between investigators in the applications of symptom-severity thresholds can result in large differences in prevalence rates for depression. However, the inclusions of somatic symptoms in the diagnostic criteria inflates the rates of diagnosis only when these symptoms are used in conjunction with a low-threshold approach.
Psychosocial intervention does not prolong survival in cancer. This meta-analysis can not rule out small effect sizes because of the small number of trials and small trial sizes.
The results indicate that behavioral techniques and physical exercise improve psychosocial functioning and HRQoL in breast cancer patients and survivors. Future research is needed on the effect of physical exercise on stress and the effect of the combined intervention in breast cancer patients.
Long-term, disease-free breast cancer survivors reported high levels of functioning and QOL many years after primary treatment. However, past systemic adjuvant treatment was associated with poorer functioning on several dimensions of QOL. This information may be useful to patients and physicians who are engaging in discussion of the risks and benefits of systemic adjuvant therapy.
Education-based group interventions facilitated the initial adjustment of women diagnosed with early stage breast cancer. There was no evidence of benefits from peer discussion group interventions.
The findings and future directions of research on the role of personal control in the adjustment to cancer will be discussed.
Our analysis strengthens the evidence of the effectiveness of psychosocial support in improving breast cancer symptoms and psychoeducational support in improving emotional well-being within 6 months post-intervention.
Researchers should use psychological and social measures along with physiologic parameters when evaluating the impacts of SLE. Clinicians should work to develop standardized primary prevention programs and limb circumference should be measured at the time of breast carcinoma diagnosis. Gaps in knowledge related to intra/interethnic diversity, poverty, and comorbidities of women with breast carcinoma-related SLE need to be explored. The combined efforts of researchers and clinicians would reinforce awareness and knowledge for women at risk and provide important baseline data for research and practice.
Understanding and influencing the uncertainty experience have been suggested to be key in relieving psychosocial distress and positively influencing future screening behaviors. Several studies examine correlational relationships among anxiety, selection of coping methods, and demographic factors that influence uncertainty. A gap exists in the literature with regard to the relationship of inner strength and uncertainty.
The result suggests that asking about history of depression and appropriate intervention, including psycho-education, are needed for patients with first breast cancer recurrence in order to detect and manage psychological distress. Although further studies are needed to clarify causal links between psychiatric disorders and QOL, patients' psychiatric disorders were associated with QOL.
CBT is related to short-term effects on depression and anxiety and both short and long term effects on QOL. Individual interventions were more effective than group. Various CBT approaches provided in an individual format can assist cancer survivors in reducing emotional distress and improving quality of life.
Breast cancer survivors' perceptions of ongoing and unexpected symptoms have important influences on quality of life. Understanding temporal, situational, and attributive dimensions of symptom distress empowers nurses and healthcare professionals to help breast cancer survivors prepare for subsequent ongoing or unexpected experiences in the years after breast cancer treatment.
Most studies show an effect of SES on breast cancer incidence and prognosis. Research should focus on the influence of social deprivation on breast cancer characteristics, such as absence of ER expression, that occurs in African Americans and Hispanics and in white European women with a different genetic background.
These results offer vital support for the need to identify high-risk patients through psychosocial screening in order to provide early intervention. To simply perceive cancer patients as a homogeneous group is an erroneous assumption. Failure to detect and treat elevated levels of distress jeopardizes the outcomes of cancer therapies, decreases patients' quality of life, and increases health care costs.
The therapeutic effects of alendronate were sustained, and the drug was well tolerated over a 10-year period. The discontinuation of alendronate resulted in the gradual loss of its effects.
At 12 months, immediate zoledronic acid therapy prevented bone loss in postmenopausal women who were receiving adjuvant letrozole.
Our results suggest that early improvements in disease-free survival noted in patients who switch to exemestane after 2-3 years on tamoxifen persist after treatment, and translate into a modest improvement in overall survival.
Anastrozole is associated with significant BMD loss and a small increase in bone turnover, whereas tamoxifen (and the combination) is associated with increased BMD and decreased remodeling. These data may explain the increased fracture risk observed with anastrozole treatment in the ATAC trial. The impact of anastrozole on bone should be weighed against its overall superior efficacy and tolerability as observed in the main ATAC trial.
EXE and 17-H-EXE significantly prevent bone loss, enhance bone mechanical strength, and lower serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein levels in OVX rats. These protective effects on end-organ function are not seen with the nonsteroidal inhibitor LET.
These findings are relevant to the nonpharmacological treatment of postmenopausal bone loss.
Ovarian carcinosarcoma is a rare malignancy with poor prognosis. In this study, advanced stage appears to be poor prognostic indicator of survival in patients with ovarian carcinosarcoma.
Ovarian carcinosarcoma is a distinct entity with a poor prognosis. Patients with carcinosarcoma differ from those with SAC with regard to having an older mean age of onset, an inferior response to platinum-based chemotherapy, and worse progression-free and cause-specific survival. The extent of benefit from chemotherapy is unclear.
The management of this tumour is difficult and randomised trials are needed to accrue sufficient patient numbers to demonstrate optimal therapy.
Hemorrhagic ascites can be used in the initial differential diagnosis of ovarian carcinosarcomas. Stage, optimal debulking and type of adjuvant therapy were statistically significant prognostic predictors of ovarian carcinosarcomas. We advise that patients with ovarian carcinosarcomas should be treated by optimal cytoreduction followed by adjuvant platinum/taxan or platinum/ifosfamide combinations.
p185erbB-2 overexpression in both CC and SC of FGTCS suggests a common carcinogenic mechanism for both components and supports the conversion-histogenesis hypothesis implicating a dominant role for the CC with the SC arising as a metaplastic change from the CC. EGFR may be expressed in either component and indicates aggressive biologic behavior; however, its prognostic utility is limited by its low predictive value for recurrence (40.3%), inability to foretell recurrence in good prognosis groups, and dependence on stage. High frequency of overexpression and dismal prognosis make FGTCS patients good candidates for trials of therapeutic strategies involving the p185erbB-2 receptor manipulations.
We found no differences in patient demographics between the two groups. Despite differences in stage and initial treatment, there was no difference in survival between women with uterine and ovarian CS.
Aggressive surgical cytoreduction followed by combination chemotherapy may result in improved progression free intervals for women with advanced ovarian MMMT. However, a major improvement in prognosis for this rare malignancy has not yet been achieved.
Ovarian carcinosarcoma has a poor overall prognosis with median survival rates reported in the literature ranging from 7-10 months. Our series, although limited by a small number of patients, exhibits a more encouraging median survival of 21 months for the overall group. Aggressive debulking to eliminate residual disease and the use of ifosfamide/cisplatin chemotherapy seem to be factors in this improved outcome.
These data indicate that hereditary ovarian carcinosarcoma may result from a mutation in BRCA2 and that both histologic elements of this tumor arose from the same progenitor cell.
These data provide the first objective evidence that cisplatin is active as an initial therapy for patients who have carcinosarcoma of the ovary. The overall response rate (20%) is similar to that seen in carcinosarcomas of the uterus.
Initial assessment suggests that this is a workable consent process allowing research to be undertaken in patients who are unable to give consent at the time of randomisation. Patient accrual rates to date are lower than needed to recruit adequate numbers in the time allotted to answer the research question.
Hybrid PET/CT was found to be of value for detection of cervical cancer metastases, decision-making and planning of irradiation therapy. Using this modality may reduce unnecessary surgical interventions, help modify radiation fields and change therapeutic approaches. Detection of advanced diseases on PET/CT correlates with poor prognosis. However, this examination is less accurate in detecting microscopic diseases and lesions smaller than 1.5 cm.
Posttherapy surveillance programs are directed toward asymptomatic patients in whom early detection of recurrence may impact survival. These data indicate that a subset of women may benefit from surveillance. A model for surveillance is proposed.
In patients with a suspected recurrence of cervical cancer, integrated PET/CT using (18)F-FDG provides good anatomic and functional localization of suspicious lesions, and the better diagnostic interpretation has an impact not only on clinical management and treatment planning of patients, but also on disease-free survival.
In only 32% of all cases, recurrence was detected during a scheduled follow-up visit. In the majority of patients, recurrent cervical cancer was detected by symptoms (87%). In recurrent disease, DFI was a prognostic factor for survival.
Our results have shown that a simplified diagnostic approach, including the SCC assay and gynecologic examination, can detect a high rate of recurrence from cervical cancer, with a very favorable cost-effective profile.
In order to minimize the deleterious effects, the impact of cervical cancer and precancerous lesions on QoL should be managed as part of a complete healthcare plan. To improve QoL, cervical cancer patients should seek supportive counseling and education about self-care and adherence to treatment and follow-up plans, continue cervical cancer screening, and receive vaccination against prevalent oncogenic virus types.
In conclusion, follow-up of patients treated for cervical cancer based on routine Pap smears and systematic radiography does not permit earlier detection of recurrence and does not increase survival.
Our study helps demonstrate the great need of prospective cost-effectiveness studies which are lacking at the present time.
There is a relationship between hospital volume and reoperation rate. Institution type only influenced reoperation rate. Statistically significant associations were found between surgical specialty and all three outcome variables. The volume of surgery performed by an individual surgeon only influenced reoperation rate. Our results are preliminary but support the need for further studies examining factors such as stage.
Gynecologic oncologists see less than half of ovarian cancer patients. Patients under 40 years of age, over 70 years of age, and in rural areas were significantly less likely to be seen by a gynecologic oncologist in their course of treatment. Patients with advanced disease experienced a significant survival advantage when a gynecologic oncologist was involved in their care.
Surgical management of uterine cancer by high volume surgeons is associated with a decrease risk in in-hospital death. Increased efforts to concentrate the surgical management of uterine cancer by high volume surgeons at high volume centers should be undertaken.
The limited evidence available showed considerable heterogeneity and has to be interpreted cautiously. Better utilization of knowledge about institutional factors and well-established board certifications may improve outcome in ovarian cancer. Patients and primary-care physicians should select gynecologic oncologists for primary treatment in countries with established sub-specialty training. Policymakers, insurance companies, and lay organizations should support development of respective programs.
Ovarian cancer patients treated by gynecologic oncologists had marginally better outcomes than those treated by general gynecologists and clearly superior outcomes compared with patients treated by general surgeons.
The surgical treatment of patients with ovarian carcinoma by gynecologic oncologists occurred more often according to surgical guidelines, tumor removal more often was complete, and survival was improved.
A significant percentage of women with ovarian cancer did not receive recommended surgical procedures. Almost 50% of women with early stage disease were not adequately staged and in women with advanced disease, the percentage who had additional surgical procedures such as bowel resections was much lower than in institutions that report high optimal cytoreduction rates.
Many women with ovarian cancer, especially those in poor, elderly, or minority groups, are not receiving recommended comprehensive surgery. Efforts should be made to ensure that all women with ovarian cancer, especially those in vulnerable populations, have the opportunity to receive care from centers or surgeons with higher comprehensive surgery rates.
Patients with ovarian cancer who are managed by a specialised gynaecology unit are more likely to have adequate initial surgery and a longer median survival time. Female patients presenting with non-specific abdominal symptoms, ascites and other signs of intra-abdominal malignancy should be reviewed by a gynaecology unit before initial surgery.
Specialist gynaecologists improve survival for some women with ovarian cancer.
In the context of a single-payer, publicly-funded health care system, we did not find significant regional differences in endometrial cancer outcomes.
Women primarily managed by a GYO for early-stage disease were significantly less likely to receive adjuvant radiotherapy. Despite significantly more unfavorable disease characteristics among GYO-managed women, disease-free and cause-specific survival were equivalent between the two groups. Favorable disease characteristics and adjuvant radiotherapy correlated with improved survival on multivariate analysis.
The present study is a population-based study over a 7-year period within a region that has only community hospitals. Patients with early EOC had incomplete staging and patients with advanced EOC an insufficient rate of radical surgery. Women with a suspicion of ovarian cancer should be referred to centers with experienced tumor surgeons.
The outcome of ovarian cancer is better when treatment is provided by a gynecologic oncologist or in a specialized hospital.
All women undergoing surgery for ovarian cancer should have access to a gynaecological opinion and postoperatively should be referred for a nonsurgical oncological opinion.
According to results from the decision-analysis model, centralized referral of patients with ovarian cancer to an expert center was a cost-effective healthcare strategy and represents a paradigm for quality cancer care, delivering superior patient outcomes at an economically affordable cost. Increased efforts to align current patterns of care with a universal strategy of centralized expert referral are warranted.
Over the last several decades, clinical trials have defined the current therapeutic approach for ovarian cancer. Paclitaxel with a platinum-based agent is currently the preferred front-line therapy, with encouraging data to support either dose-dense or intraperitoneal drug delivery. Future trials will determine the role of biologic agents and vaccine therapies, as well as their impact on quality of life.
More studies are needed to investigate modifiable risk factors for endometrial cancer and endometrial hyperplasia. Existing therapies for endometrial hyperplasia target hormone imbalance, which is just one aspect of endometrial cancer development. Next generation therapies for endometrial cancer and endometrial hyperplasia patients should include diet, exercise and weight loss plans, which would target other modifiable aspects of endometrial cancer risk.
Screening has been effective in reducing the incidence of and mortality from cervical cancer in north east Scotland. Most cases and deaths occurred in unscreened women or in those who had had few smears at long intervals. An increase in cases of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III in women screened for the first time occurred during 1982-91.
This study confirms the short-term surgical benefits of LARVH. In addition, LARVH has been shown to be a less radical procedure than RAH, supporting the need for strict patient selection and to restrict the procedure to small tumours.
The observed symptoms are distressful and should, if one focuses on patient satisfaction, be given priority.
A learning curve is demonstrated in the laparoscopic management of women with endometrial cancer. With increasing surgeon's experience, there is significant decrease in operating time and increase in the number of pelvic lymph nodes removed.
Radical surgery for cervical cancer can be accomplished using the da Vinci surgical system (Intuitive Surgical, Sunnyvale, Calif) with acceptable blood loss, operating time, parametrial margins, and nodal yield. Future studies need to address long-term outcomes.
Despite the inherent limitations of LARVH and its associated learning curve, the procedure conveys many advantages over the open technique in terms of blood loss, transfusion requirement and hospital stay. In addition, the incidence of postoperative bladder and bowel dysfunction appears low-suggesting improved quality of life-without compromising survival.
The CS procedure is a suitable alternative to WM for small-volume, early-stage cervical cancer, showing a good safety profile, shorter postoperative recovery time, and similar survival outcomes.
Surgical management of cervical cancer may be one of the gynecologic oncology surgeries that can take full advantage of robotic assistance in a minimally invasive manner. Continued research and clinical trials are needed to further elucidate the equivalence or superiority of robot-assisted surgery to conventional methods in terms of oncological outcome and patient's quality of life.
Resectability improved after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Complete resection did not increase complications. There was a small survival benefit for complete resection. This study suggests that complete resection may still be important in the current era of intense chemotherapy and transplant.
High-dose cyclophosphamide and high-dose carboplatin are effective in the initial treatment of neuroblastoma; combined with surgery they produce some response in most patients. Nevertheless, the CR/VGPR rate reaches only 53%. Survival time has also been prolonged but most patients relapse with metastases.
Biopsies of stage IV neuroblastoma allow safe assessment of N-myc and other biological factors on tumor tissue. Delayed surgery after chemotherapy is performed with a low rate of complications, achieving a good local control of disease. N-myc-amplified tumors have higher local relapse rates than nonamplified and therefore would need more intensive local treatment. The final outcome in these patients is determined more by metastatic relapses than by the degree of resection.
In combination with EBRT to the primary tumor site, the addition of 10 Gy of TBI as a component of high-dose chemotherapy with ABMT improved local control compared with CC without TBI. Results suggest a dose-response relationship for local EBRT. Short-term toxicity of local EBRT is limited.
Biological classification of neuroblastomas should be mandatory and be the prerequisite for any risk adapted treatment. One serological and 2 biological factors could be a good standard evaluation to identify neuroblastoma patients at risk.
With the use of the more intensive induction regimen A plus blood stem cell transplantation for MYCN-amplified patients, survival curves for those with or without MYCN amplification now appear similar. Higher doses of chemotherapy may ameliorate the effect of MYCN amplification in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.
Postoperative intensification treatment with HDC, SCR, and locoregional RT resulted in higher survival rates when compared with standard treatment alone and should be considered in the treatment plan for children who are diagnosed with Stage II or III NB and MYCN amplification.
No significant differences with respect to type of study (randomized controlled versus observational), impact factor, and time to publication existed for the likelihood that a World Congress of Sports Injury conference abstract could be published as a full paper.
Immunotherapy with ch14.18, GM-CSF, and interleukin-2 was associated with a significantly improved outcome as compared with standard therapy in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The improvement in AF in terms of loco-regional control is estimated to be 3-5% in comparison with conventional regimen and is not significant. The intensity of reactions after 4 months was similar in both arms, what suggests the possibility of further shortening of the overall time by few days or enhancing the total dose within the limits of acceptable morbidity.
Tumor HPV status is a strong and independent prognostic factor for survival among patients with oropharyngeal cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Even in randomized controlled trials, compliance to the prescribed radiation therapy schedule may be relatively poor, especially after conventional fractionation. This affects the interpretation of the outcome of these trials.
Procedure related mortality rates following gastrostomy in head and neck cancer patients are higher than those in mixed patient populations. Major complication rates following RIG in head and neck cancer patients are greater than those following PEG. Major complications following PEG in patients with head and neck cancer appear no worse than in mixed pathology groups. We have identified that RIG is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in patients who are ineligible for PEG. The serious nature of the complications associated with gastrostomy particularly in patients with head and neck cancer requires careful consideration by the referring physician.
. Measures of QOL research can be used in HETF patients. QOL is reduced in patients on HETF. Part of this effect is explained by malnutrition. HETF can prevent further weight loss and improve some aspects of QOL, thus allowing physicians to focus on patients.
The overall satisfaction rate of 95% reported here may be explained by the voluntary nature of this registry. The most important factor that predicts an unfavorable outcome following bilateral prophylactic mastectomy is a physician-initiated discussion.
Women with an increased risk of breast cancer due to a genetic predisposition should be adequately informed about the different treatment options in the setting of a multidisciplinary approach. PM can simultaneously be combined with PBO and IBR. IBR can facilitate the decision to undergo a PM. PM followed by IBR has an acceptable complication rate.
This study suggests that positive outcomes following prophylactic mastectomy include decreased emotional concern about developing breast cancer and generally favorable psychological and social outcomes. These must be weighed against the irreversibility of the decision, potential problems with implants and reconstructive surgery, and occurrence of adverse psychological and social outcomes in some women. JAMA. 2000;284:319-324
Women who have had breast implantation frequently experience local complications during the subsequent five years. Complications were significantly less frequent among patients who received implants for cosmetic reasons than among those who received implants after mastectomy for cancer or for cancer prophylaxis.
Bilateral prophylactic mastectomy reduced breast cancer incidence in women at elevated risk for breast cancer cared for in community-based practices. However, the absolute risk of breast cancer incidence and death in women who did not undergo the procedure in these settings was relatively low.
CPM was associated with a low risk of subsequent development of breast carcinoma. Evaluation of histologic findings in the ipsilateral breast may help to predict the likelihood of significant disease in the contralateral breast and assist in risk stratification.
In women with a high risk of breast cancer on the basis of family history, prophylactic mastectomy can significantly reduce the incidence of breast cancer.
Bilateral prophylactic mastectomy may provide psychological benefits in women with a high risk of developing breast cancer.
For the majority of women there is no evidence of significant mental health or body image problems in the first 3 years following Bilateral Prophylactic Mastectomy (BPM), but women who have complications warrant additional psychological help. Careful pre-operative preparation and long-term monitoring are advocated in this new field of cancer prevention.
Ten percent of patients with ILC experienced bilateral cancers during a period of 10 years. Survival was not influenced by the development of a second cancer, but it improved with surgical prophylaxis.
In women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, prophylactic bilateral total mastectomy reduces the incidence of breast cancer at three years of follow-up.
To minimize the risk of regrets in women contemplating CPM, it is imperative that these women be counseled regarding an estimation of contralateral breast cancer risk, the alternatives to CPM, and the efficacy of CPM. In addition, these women should have realistic expectations of the cosmetic outcomes of surgery and understand the potential impact on their body image.
Surgical reoperations were fairly common among women who received prophylactic mastectomy with implant reconstruction. Most of the reoperations were implant related. Reoperations were fairly uncommon after prophylactic mastectomy without reconstruction.
BRCA1-associated BC is characterised by specific tumour characteristics, a high incidence of CBC and a trend towards a worse survival for the ductal tumour type. Our observation that tumour size and nodal status are also prognostic factors for BRCA1-associated BC implies that the strategy to use these factors as a proxy for ultimate mortality, for instance in BC screening programmes or the consideration of (contralateral) preventive mastectomy, appears to be valid in this specific group of patients.
The finding that breast cancer risk was reduced in proportion to the amount of tissue removed should be reassuring to women who are considering breast reduction procedures and to women who are electing to have bilateral total prophylactic mastectomies because of a strong genetic predisposition.
We would suggest that women with a significant family history and therefore a high contra-lateral breast cancer risk, should have these risks and management options discussed at the time of diagnosis of breast cancer.
Indications and practice patterns reveal heterogeneity of medical opinion and practice of prophylactic mastectomy. This study raises the need for better evaluation of the efficacy and appropriateness of prophylactic mastectomy.
Most high-risk women tolerated intensive breast screening well; they were not more inclined towards PM after participating. Future studies should prospectively evaluate larger numbers of high-risk women via multivariate analysis, to determine characteristics associated with preference for breast screening vs. PM.
Only a subset of HBOC family members are likely to request BRCA1 testing when available. Rates of test use may be higher in persons of a higher socioeconomic status and those with more relatives affected with breast cancer. For some high-risk individuals who receive test results in a research setting that includes counseling, there may be psychological benefits. More research is needed to assess the generalizability of these results and evaluate the long-term consequences of BRCA1 testing.
Breast cancer survivors with a strong family history of breast cancer are more likely to undergo surgical preventive measures to reduce their risk of additional cancer, but do not report undertaking more preventive lifestyle behaviors compared to breast cancer survivors without a family history.
Most women reported active or shared roles in decision making regarding CPM, particularly younger women, those with college education, and those with recent CPM. Women with active roles were more often satisfied in the short term but were also more likely to report current concern about breast cancer. Whether higher concern is related to insufficient input from clinicians should be explored. Prospective data are needed.
Although a PM statistically reduces the chances of a woman developing breast cancer, the possibility of significant physical and psychological sequelae remains. Careful evaluation, education, and support both before and after the procedure will potentially reduce the level of distress and dissatisfaction in these women. We discuss recommendations for the appropriate surgical and psychiatric evaluation of women who are considering a PM as risk-reducing surgery.
Women with hereditary/familial non-BRCA1/BRCA2 breast carcinoma had a high risk of developing CBC. This risk was attenuated further among women who were younger at the time of onset, who had a cumulative probability of developing CBC of nearly 40% after 15 years, which is similar to the estimated risk among BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation carriers. The results of this study emphasized the importance of genetic counseling for these women.
Women in the registry who underwent RRM practiced a more "healthy" lifestyle than gender-matched controls. Therefore, the decision to have prophylactic surgery may have been part of a proactive approach toward their overall physical well-being.
In addition to traditional risk factors, bcl-2 negativity was associated significantly with a worse clinical outcome. Biologic features of primary tumors were correlated independently with outcome after first recurrence in patients with metastatic breast carcinoma and may be used as indicators of prognosis in the metastatic setting.
Tamoxifen decreases the incidence of invasive and noninvasive breast cancer. Despite side effects resulting from administration of tamoxifen, its use as a breast cancer preventive agent is appropriate in many women at increased risk for the disease.
The results show that chemotherapy can add to both quantity and quality of life in advanced gastric cancer. The number of patients who benefit from treatment is, however, still rather limited.
The results of this study suggest that palliative chemotherapy is cost-effective in patients with advanced gastric and colorectal cancer. Knowledge about survival and quality of life benefits is still limited in patients suffering from gastric and pancreatic-biliary cancer.
Our study shows that gabapentin is safe and effective for treating uraemic pruritus in haemodialysis patients. Our results also support the neuropathic hypothesis of uraemic pruritus.
Our results show that ondansetron is no better than placebo in controlling renal itch.
Montelukast is more effective than placebo in the treatment of uremic pruritus not responding to the currently available antipruritus drugs, and it can be considered as a new and rather safe and effective treatment option in uremic patients.
We suggest that doxepin, a tricyclic antidepressant with anti-H1 receptor effect, can help improve pruritus resistant to antihistamines in end-stage renal disease patients who undergo hemodialysis. A low dose of doxepin is safe while effective and its main adverse effect, drowsiness, is temporary and can be easily tolerated by the patients.
Naltrexone can be considered as an alternative option to treat pruritus of cholestasis. In the current study, side effects were transient and did not require specific medication.
For patients with cholestatic liver disease and itching, refractory to regular antipruritic therapy, oral naltrexone may be an effective and well-tolerated alternative.
The addition of colchicine to ursodeoxycholic acid in patients with symptomatic primary biliary cirrhosis results in a small but significant reduction of disease progress.
Naloxone administration is associated with amelioration of the perception of pruritus and reduction of scratching activity in cholestatic patients. Because of the opioid receptor specificity of the action of naloxone, these findings support the hypothesis that a mechanism underlying the pruritus of cholestasis is modulated by endogenous opioids and suggest that opiate antagonists may have a role in the management of this complication of cholestasis.
The placebo-controlled study showed a significant advantage of topically applied naltrexone over the placebo formulation. This finding is supported by the biopsy results from the open studies, showing a regulation of MOR expression in epidermis after treatment with topical naltrexone, especially in atopic dermatitis. These results clearly show potential for topically applied opioid receptor antagonist in the treatment of pruritus. The placebo formulation also had some antipruritic effects. This underlines the importance of rehydration therapy for dry skin in the treatment of pruritus.
The findings suggest that serotoninergic neurotransmission, in neurons bearing receptors of the 5-HT3 subtype, plays no more than a minor role in the mediation of pruritus complicating chronic liver disease. The lack of an association between the results of applying subjective scores of pruritus and scratching activity emphasizes the need to include an objective quantitative efficacy endpoint in the design of trials of new therapies for pruritus.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor type 3 antagonist ondansetron has a small, but significant positive effect on pruritus in chronic liver disease as compared to placebo.
Prometheus therapy significantly improved refractory pruritus in all patients with elevated bile acid levels, but in some patients the clinical benefit was of short duration. The clinical findings suggest that we have to better characterize those patients who might derive a long-lasting benefit from this invasive and expensive treatment.
The available RCTs are small, few in number, and use varying scales for measuring pruritus. Although both opioid antagonists and rifampin demonstrated a reduction in pruritus, there were insufficient data to judge the efficacy of cholestyramine. Opioid antagonists were associated with transient side effects in a significant proportion of patients. A longer well-designed randomized controlled trial is needed to confirm the efficacy of bile acid binding agents and accurately assess adverse events.
There is considerable variation in the management of low rectal cancer advocated by colorectal surgeon educators. For each histologic and pathologic stage, opinion is divided about which operation is best. Careful outcomes analysis is required to clarify the situation.
Preoperative steroid use, longer duration of operation, and contamination of the operative field were independent risk factors for developing clinical anastomotic leakage after elective resection for colorectal cancer. Surgeons should be aware of such high-risk patients, which would help them to decide whether to create a diversion stoma during surgery.
There is not yet a strong case for the superiority of one temporary diverting stoma over another for all colorectal patients. In this regard, a large, well-conducted RCT is still needed.
Patients with multiple risk factors have higher risk for anastomotic leakage. When patients have three or more risk factors, the creation of a protective stoma should be considered in cases with a low rectal anastomosis, and all these patients should be carefully monitored postoperatively for signs of possible leak.
Loop ileostomy and takedown are associated with low rates of serious complications (5% or less). As such, we continue to advocate use of loop ileostomy as a diversion procedure. Closure by enterotomy suture is preferred over resection. However, if resection is required, closure by stapled anastomosis is preferred over suture anastomosis.
The M group presents a significant effect of attenuation of anticipatory anxiety and a tendency to great induction compliance compared to group C. The parents do not show any significant anxiety attenuation effect. The degree of satisfaction of children, parents and staff point to a positive role and a beneficial effect of interactive music on the occasion of painful procedures.
Music therapy is a noninvasive and inexpensive intervention that appears to reduce mood disturbance in patients undergoing HDT/ASCT.
The effects of music, distraction, and treatment as usual are equivocal. In addition, patients have individual preferences for use of distraction during painful or anxiety-provoking procedures.
Despite a lack of group differences, early intervention with music therapy for patients with high levels of anxiety may be beneficial.
These preliminary findings are encouraging and suggest beneficial effects of interactive music therapy with hospitalized pediatric hematology/oncology patients. In future studies replicating these findings should be conducted in a randomized control trial.
These findings, which link listening to music in a relaxed state and improvisation to alterations in psychological and physiological parameters, may provide a better understanding of the effectiveness of music therapy for cancer patients.
The preliminary results of the pilot study suggest that sound meditation represents an effective relaxation therapy from the beginning of the treatment. In contrast to some other relaxation methods, sound meditation does not require regular exercise or practice to achieve positive effects. Further studies in terms of randomized controlled trials should investigate interactions of different elements of sound meditation with regard to its outcome.
TCEMS of peripheral muscles can be a useful adjunct to the comprehensive pulmonary rehabilitation of patients with COPD.
For severely disabled COPD patients with incapacitating dyspnoea, short term electrical stimulation of selected lower limb muscles involved in ambulation can improve muscle strength and endurance, whole body exercise tolerance, and breathlessness during activities of daily living.
Our results suggest that CLFS is a suitable treatment to counteract detrimental changes in skeletal muscle and to increase exercise capacity in patients with severe CHF.
Activities of daily living as well as quality of life increased in the SG but not in the CG. Subscales of the SF-36 increased significantly in the SG, especially concerning physical functioning by +7.5 (1.3-30.0), emotional role by +33.3 (0-66.6), and social functioning by +18.8 (0-46.9), all P < 0.05. Neither a change nor a decrease was observed in the CG. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation of thigh muscles in patients with refractory heart failure is effective in increasing muscle strength and bulk and positively affects the perception of quality of life and activities of daily living.
The combination of ES and UR was associated with greater improvement in quadriceps strength and dyspnea during the performance of daily tasks than UR alone in severely disabled COPD patients with low BMI. In this population, ES has been revealed as a useful procedure, complementing the usual pulmonary rehabilitation.
EMS can be used in sedentary adults with stable chronic heart failure to improve physical fitness and functional capacity. It may provide a viable alternative for patients unable to undertake more conventional forms of exercise.
FES produces beneficial changes in muscle performance and exercise capacity in patients with CHF. Within this study, the benefits were similar to those observed following bicycle training. FES could be offered to patients with heart failure as an alternative to bicycle training as part of a home-based rehabilitation programme.
In moderate stable chronic heart failure, exercise training using bicycle ergometer or FES results in favourable qualitative rather than quantitative changes in skeletal muscle. Correction of maximum oxygen uptake for skeletal muscle mass rather than total body mass is a more sensitive measure of changes associated with exercise training.
The invitation to undertake a programme of therapeutic exercise is accepted by about two-thirds of patients. Rates of adherence and completion are relatively high, but overall, only about half of patients offered a programme complete one. There is a need to modify exercise programmes if they are to be acceptable for the majority of patients.
The modest effect sizes after ES, small n, and small number of studies provide weak evidence for the effectiveness of ES to improve lower limb muscle function in COPD patients. Further study should elucidate the optimal parameters for ES protocols and selection criteria for responders and non-responders.
Cervical-SCS increased tumour oxygenation and CCA blood flow, and could enhance the loco-regional delivery of oxygen, radiosensitising and chemotherapeutic drugs. Cervical-SCS as adjuvant in chemoradiotherapy of these tumours warrants further investigation.
In this study using PET, SCS increased glucose metabolism in RBI and peri-RBI areas. These results warrant further clinical investigation to elucidate more fully the clinical usefulness of SCS in these patients.
Testicular pain may be difficult to treat particularly in patients unable to tolerate opioid analgesics. In cases that have failed conservative therapy, a trial of spinal cord stimulation should be explored.
The experience of this tertiary cancer pain center demonstrates that infectious complications following implantation of IDD and SCS systems are relatively rare events in cancer patients. Contrary to our initial hypothesis, no difference was found in the infection rate between cancer and non-cancer patients. The main factor associated with increased risk of infectious complications was increased surgical time, indicating a need to minimize patient time in the operating room. The low infectious complication rate seen in this series compared to previous reports in non-cancer patients is likely multifactorial in nature.
Our data suggest that pain is not being assessed and reassessed in a manner that is consistent with current practice recommendations in older adult patients with pathologic processes that highly suggest the presence of acute pain.
In selected patients with CRPS, SCS is cost-effective as an adjunct to CMM. Despite their initial increased expense, rechargeable IPGs should be considered when IPG longevity is likely to be short. These findings support policymakers to extend the use of SCS as a good value for money treatment for CRPS.
Cancer-related pain can be controlled with several interventions when oral or transdermal opioids are inadequate. A risk:benefit ratio should be considered before implementing invasive analgesic methods.
SCS appears to be an effective therapy in the management of patients with CRPS type I (Level A evidence) and type II (Level D evidence). Moreover, there is evidence to demonstrate that SCS is a cost-effective treatment for CRPS type I.
Vandetanib 300 mg daily monotherapy had no significant clinical benefit in this disease setting. Proteomic analysis of paired biopsies detected both phosphorylated-EGFR and phosphorylated-VEGF receptor-2 in ovarian tumor tissue, but only phosphorylated-EGFR was measurably inhibited by vandetanib.
Among unselected patients, erlotinib plus carboplatin-paclitaxel did not improve pCR rates compared with historical experience with carboplatin-paclitaxel alone in patients with stage III-IV OFPC.
The combination of erlotinib and carboplatin was active in patients with platinum-sensitive disease, but not in platinum-resistant disease. The toxicities seen were those expected with carboplatin and erlotinib.
This regimen of lapatinib and carboplatin was associated with unacceptable non-dose limiting toxicities, excessive treatment delays and limited clinical responses.
The combination of cetuximab with paclitaxel and carboplatin is adequately tolerated as primary therapy for ovarian cancer but did not demonstrate prolongation of PFS when compared to historical data.
The results from this study demonstrated that gefitinib inhibited the phosphorylation of EGFR in EOC tumor cells, providing proof of target in a clinical setting. Combinatorial therapy with molecular therapeutics against complementary targets may prove successful.
Gefitinib was well tolerated but had minimal activity in unscreened patients with recurrent ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinoma. Prescreening patients for activating mutations in EGFR may improve response rate to gefitinib. This report is the first to document activating mutations in catalytic domain of EGFR in 3.5% (2 of 57) of ovarian cancers.
Single-agent cetuximab showed minimal activity in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Patients with elevated levels of 12 serologic markers at baseline were more likely to have earlier disease progression.
Cetuximab administered in combination with carboplatin had modest activity in screened patients with EGFR-positive, relapsed platinum-sensitive ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinoma. Cetuximab was associated with an acneiform rash in a majority of patients and occasional serious hypersensitivity reactions.
Matuzumab at the dose and schedule selected is well tolerated. In this population of very heavily pretreated patients with epithelial ovarian and primary peritoneal malignancies, there was no evidence of significant clinical activity when matuzumab was administered as monotherapy.
Four-week administration of dalteparin, 5000 IU once daily, after major abdominal surgery significantly reduces the rate of VTE, without increasing the risk of bleeding, compared with 1 week of thromboprophylaxis.
Extended LMWH prophylaxis showed consistent effectiveness and safety in the trials (regardless of study variations in clinical practice and length of hospital stay) for venographic deep venous thrombosis and symptomatic venous thromboembolism. The aggregate findings support the need for extended out-of-hospital prophylaxis in patients undergoing hip arthroplasty surgery.
The overall incidence of venous thromboembolism has not changed over 30 years. During this period the proportion of the population aged over 65 has doubled, and this may have masked the beneficial effects of prophylaxis and early mobilisation. Prevalences corrected for age are needed.
Immediate postoperative enteral feeding in patients undergoing intestinal resection seems to be safe, prevents an increase in gut mucosal permeability, and produces a positive nitrogen balance.
The return of oral feeding on the first postoperative day in patients submitted to intestinal anastomoses is safe, not associated with the occurrence of anastomotic dehiscence and moreover, related to a shorter resolution of ileus.
Nutritional status declined for two months after discharge. Postoperative nutritional supplementation improved nutritional status, QOL, and morbidity in these patients.
Early postoperative feeding is safe and is tolerated by the majority of patients. Early feeding, if tolerated, decreases length of hospital stay and may decrease health care costs. Longer operative time and increased blood loss intraoperatively may indicate a more difficult procedure and identify those patients who will not tolerate early feeding.
The prescription of oral dietary supplements to patients who have undergone gastrointestinal surgery results in clinically significant benefits. These benefits, however, are restricted to the inpatient phase.
Supplementation of enteral diet with arginine, RNA, and omega-3 fatty acids in the early postoperative time period improves postoperative immunologic responses and helps to overcome more rapidly the immunologic depression after surgical trauma.
In contrast with normal volunteers, the patients started on EN later than 24 h after admission to the ICU demonstrated increased intestinal permeability on the second day after sustaining multiple injury. Also, they had a more severe form of MOF than the group placed on EN immediately upon admission. However, early EN had no influence on the length of ICU stay or the time of mechanical ventilation.
Early initiation of PEG feedings is safe, well tolerated, and reduces cost by decreasing hospital stay.
The outcome of reconstructive anorectal surgery was not adversely affected by the omission of medical bowel confinement. Moreover, cost savings can be achieved by the omission of routine bowel confinement.
Immediate postoperative feeding is feasible in patients with perforative peritonitis and reduces septic morbidity.
The use of preoperative TPN should be limited to patients who are severely malnourished unless there are other specific indications.
Early enteral feeding via gastrostomy accelerated jejunal anastomotic healing in comparison to parenteral feeding. This study clearly indicates that early oral feeding after upper gastrointestinal surgery leads to prompt anastomotic healing.
Total parenteral nutrition does not influence the overall mortality rate of surgical or critically ill patients. It may reduce the complication rate, especially in malnourished patients, but study results are influenced by patient population, use of lipids, methodological quality, and year of publication.
There seems to be no clear advantage to keeping patients nil by mouth after elective gastrointestinal resection. Early feeding may be of benefit. An adequately powered trial is required to confirm or refute the benefits seen in small trials.
This study revealed that the administration of therapeutic doses of 131I has a therapeutic effect, at least for palliation in short-term observation, considering the serum Tg level as an index of tumour burden, and that it can disclose previously undiagnosed lesion in some patients with differentiated thyroid cancer who show elevated thyroglobulin level but negative diagnostic 131I whole-body scan.
To the authors' knowledge no single effective diagnostic test for thyroid carcinoma currently is available and in the majority of cases a combination of ultrasound, thyroid scan, or fine-needle aspiration biopsy together with the clinical findings (e.g., thyroid mass) led to a diagnosis of carcinoma. The authors suspect that the high prevalence of concomitant pathologic findings such as goiter, even in the healthy population in Germany, reduces the accuracy of all diagnostic test methods and may account for the frequent use of imaging techniques. The majority of patients underwent a total or near-total thyroidectomy. Total thyroidectomy with radical lymph node dissection was used very frequently in those patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (22%). German physicians tend to surgically treat early stage thyroid carcinoma somewhat more radically than recommended in the CPG. With respect to other treatment options employed as part of the first course of treatment, radioiodine appears to play the most important role. [See commentary o
In addition to offering information concerning risk factors and symptoms, the current PCE study compliments the survival information from previous NCDB reports and offers a surveillance snapshot of current management of thyroid carcinoma in the U.S. Identified opportunities for improvement of care include 1) more frequent use of fine-needle aspiration cytology in making a diagnosis; 2) more frequent use of laryngoscopy in evaluating patients preoperatively, especially those with voice change; and 3) improved lymph node resection and analysis to improve staging and, in some situations, outcomes.
Radioiodine treatment for thyroid cancer may result in transient impairment of gonadal function. The radiation dose absorbed by the testis after a single ablative dose of radioiodine is well below that associated with permanent damage to germinal epithelium and the risk of infertility in these patients is minimal. Patients requiring multiple administrations for persistent or metastatic thyroid cancer may be at greater risk of gonadal damage although even in this group, we found no evidence of infertility.
The NTCTCS Registry staging classification provides a prospectively validated scheme for predicting short term prognosis for patients with thyroid carcinoma.
The goal of the BCAN-TT is to advance the care of patients with bladder cancer and to promote collaborative research throughout the year. The meeting provided ample opportunities for collaboration among clinicians from multiple disciplines, patients and patient advocates, and industry representatives.
These abridged EAU guidelines present updated information on the diagnosis and treatment of NMIBC for incorporation into clinical practice.
UBC is a frequently occurring malignancy with a significant impact on public health and will remain so because of the high prevalence of smoking. The importance of primary prevention must be stressed, and smoking cessation programs need to be encouraged and supported.
The results demonstrated statistically significant superiority for BCG compared with MMC for the prevention of tumor progression only if BCG maintenance therapy was provided.
It is imperative that health care practitioners and researchers from disparate disciplines collectively focus efforts to appropriately develop gender-specific evidence-based guidelines for bladder cancer patients. We must strive to develop multidisciplinary collaborative efforts to provide tailored gender-specific care for bladder cancer patients.
While the number of publications on uro-oncologic research rises yearly for prostatic and kidney neoplasms, urothelial carcinomas of the bladder seem to be neglected despite their important clinical role. Clinical research on neoplasms of the urothelial bladder must be explicitly addressed and supported.
Published data suggest a 59% relative reduction in NMIBC recurrence when C-HT is compared with MMC alone. C-HT also appears to improve bladder preservation rate. However, due to a limited number of randomized trials and to heterogeneity in study design, definitive conclusions cannot be drawn. In the future, C-HT may become standard therapy for high-risk patients with recurrent tumors, for patients who are unsuitable for radical cystectomy, and in cases for which bacillus Calmette-Guérin treatment is contraindicated.
For prophylaxis of recurrence, maintenance BCG is required to demonstrate superiority to MMC. Prior intravesical chemotherapy was not a confounder. There were no statistically significant differences regarding progression, overall survival, and cancer-specific survival between the two treatments.
Our updated meta-analysis supports that IVC prolongs RFI and reduces ERs of NMIBC when administered immediately after TURBT. However, contemporary methodology suggests low evidence quality for examined outcomes. Thus RCTs with careful randomization and blinding are still warranted to clarify the usefulness of immediate postoperative IVC in this population.
BCG strain may have an impact on treatment outcome in NMIBC immunotherapy.
Results suggest no significant differences between the Tokyo and Connaught strains in the complete response, recurrence-free survival or adverse event rate.
The economic burden of BC is well-characterized in the literature. This study suggests that new technologies (i.e., urine-based tests, PDD) and therapeutic regimes (intravesical chemotherapy, adjuvant immunotherapy) have significant potential to improve the diagnosis, treatment and on-going monitoring of BC patients, with potential improvements in clinical outcomes and concurrent cost-savings. A renewed interest and investment in BC research are required to ensure future advancements.
It is anticipated that EMDA and CHT will play important roles in the management of NMIBC in the future. Techniques of delivery should be standardised, and there is a need for more randomised controlled trials to evaluate the benefits of the treatments alongside quality of life and cost-effectiveness.
Regardless of disease severity, improvements in the efficiency of bladder cancer care to limit unnecessary interventions and optimize effective cancer treatment can reduce overall health care costs. Two scenarios where economic and comparative-effectiveness research is limited but would be most beneficial are (1) the management of NMIBC patients where excessive costs are due to vigilant surveillance strategies and (2) in patients with metastatic disease due to the enormous cost associated with late-stage and end-of-life care.
NK and LAK cells, through the use of immune biologic modifiers, have been demonstrated to have a therapeutic role in the treatment of human cancers. Further studies are required to determine the optimal dosages and combinations of chemotherapeutic agents, the timing of surgery, and the adjuvant use of immune biologic response modifiers. An increasing awareness and understanding of this field, may allow for the future development of anti-cancer therapies.
We conclude that the new RECIST guidelines are comparable to the old response criteria in evaluating response in solid tumors. Moreover, the new guidelines are just as simple and reproducible in the measurement of response in daily practice as they are in clinical trials.
This treatment approach resulted in the restoration of hematopoiesis and independence from transfusion in 80% of patients with SAA entered into the study. The efficacy of allogeneic BMT in salvaging cases in which ATG failed does not appear to be compromised. Follow-up for the development of clonal hematologic disorders remains an important part of this treatment policy.
Data from this center suggest that bone marrow transplantation may be preferred for younger patients with acquired aplastic anemia who have matched, related donors. Long-term survival is excellent for patients who respond to either form of therapy.
When childhood MAA is treated with supportive care alone, 2/3 of patients progress to SAA.
Patients treated with allogeneic BMT for severe aplastic anaemia enjoyed extremely good long-term survival and minimal morbidity. Patients treated with immunosuppressive therapy had a poorer outcome reflecting their older age and different usage of therapies over the past decade. Optimal treatment strategies for severe aplastic anaemia remain to be determined.
In case of a complete response, imiquimod is effective in the long-term. Furthermore, patients with a long-term complete response had a significantly better global quality of life than patients who recurred after imiquimod treatment.
Although VIN is a condition in which there would seem to be a pressing need for nonsurgical interventions, none of the nonsurgical treatments reviewed resulted in optimal outcomes. No one treatment seemed to be superior. There is a need for consensus on how outcomes are measured and a move toward large well-constructed studies is recommended. Because VIN is uncommon, there is a strong case for establishing research collaboratives.
There was a statistically significant regression of CIN in patients treated with I-3-C orally compared with placebo. The 2/16 alpha-hydroxyestrone ratio changed in a dose-dependent fashion.
This systematic review indicates that a HPV catch-up vaccination could be beneficial, however the long-term effect of such a vaccination, and its effect on cervical cancer incidence and mortality is still unclear.
There was no evidence that HPV vaccines are effective in preventing vaccine-type HPV associated pre-cancer in women with evidence of prior HPV exposure. Small effects of vaccination however cannot be excluded and a longer-term benefit in preventing re-infection remains possible.
Evaluation of H&E stained sections has been equivocal in the prediction of behavior of uterine sarcomas. Immunohistochemical studies of oncoproteins as well as molecular analysis of non-random translocations will undoubtedly lead to an accurate and prognostically relevant classification of these rare tumors.
Among women with high-grade, uterus-limited uLMS who received treatment with adjuvant gemcitabine plus docetaxel followed by doxorubicin, 78% remained progression-free at 2 years, and 57% remained progression-free at 3 years. A randomized trial of adjuvant chemotherapy versus observation to determine whether adjuvant chemotherapy can improve survival in women with uterus-limited uLMS is underway.
Offering palliative chemotherapy to patients with advanced, unresectable uterine sarcoma who are symptomatic from this disease is a reasonable decision. Doxorubicin is an option for women with advanced uterine sarcoma. The combination of cisplatinum and ifosfamide is also an option for women with metastatic mixed mesodermal tumors; however, this combination is associated with significant toxicity when compared to ifosfamide alone.
Independent predictors of DSS in patients with uterine LMS included age, race, stage, grade, and primary surgery. Oophorectomy was not found to have an independent impact on survival.
Adjuvant radiation therapy was associated with decreased pelvic failure and a modest improvement in 5-year survival, but did not impact overall survival with extended follow-up.
This study suggests that complete cytoreduction is important and adjuvant chemotherapy can help achieve favorable prognoses in patients with advanced stage disease. However, postmenopausal status, advanced FIGO stage, deep myometrial invasion, and positive LVSI were associated with poor prognosis.
Postoperative pelvic RT reduces LR and improves OS of patients with uterine LMS.
Liver resection is a feasible, safe and effective procedure which carries an acceptable morbidity and mortality and does have a major impact on the survival of these patients. The decision on resectability of colorectal metastases should be decided by the ability to leave at least 2-3 segments of liver free from metastases with uninvolved resection margins, together with the general fitness of the patient to undergo a major surgical procedure.
Although hepatic cryosurgery offers some unequivocal and other potential advantages over surgical resection for colorectal metastases to the liver, the published data do not support its use in patients with resectable disease outside a clinical trial, and do not yet justify a randomized trial. A study that collects prospective data on 2 groups of patients (resectable v. unresectable) who differ only in the anatomic location of their metastases within the liver is needed.
Repeat liver resections for colorectal metastasis is a justified approach because surgery remains the only potentially curative treatment. These procedures are relatively safe with low morbidity and mortality rates. Long-term survival (32%) can only be achieved in selected patients.
Although repeat liver resections can be performed safely and improves survival, the likelihood of cure from such resection therapy is low. This likelihood of further recurrences encourage studies of adjuvant or alternative treatments of this population.
RF ablation of solitary liver metastases 4 cm or smaller can be performed with minimal morbidity and results in excellent long-term survival, approaching that of surgical resection, even in patients who are not surgical candidates.
Despite striking differences in local tumor recurrence and shorter time to progression, survival in patients with early CRLM does not depend on the mode of primary hepatic treatment.
Our findings suggest no difference in OS, loco-regional and distant site progressions of postoperative RT alone compared to sequential postoperative RT and CT; notably, this latter regimen was associated with higher toxicity which seriously impaired the patient's compliance to CT. The low loco-regional recurrence rate (9.2%) observed in our patients undergoing postoperative RT alone compared to similarly treated patients in previously performed clinical trials (20-25%) underline the role of radical surgery (mesorectal excision) coupled with a complete postoperative RT regimen. On the other hand, the similar efficacy of these two adjuvant modalities of treatment might be conditioned by both the low compliance (59%) to the CT regimen as well as the sequential, instead of concurrent, schedule of administration of RT and CT, which may have decreased further the expected efficacy of the combined regimen.
Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with UFT is successfully tolerated and improves RFS and OS in patients with Stage III rectal cancer. In colon cancer, the expected benefits were not obtained (hazard ratio = 0.89).
Continuous 5-FU infusion starting immediately after curative surgery for colorectal cancer was safe. While further investigation is necessary to elucidate the degree of improvement in postoperative prognosis, the results of the present study suggest that continuous 5-FU infusion improves prognosis in advanced rectal cancer.
The incorporation of additional chemotherapy with FU and LV into postoperative concomitant RT and bolus infusion of FU does not offer a > or = 10% three-year survival benefit over that of concomitant RT and bolus infusion of FU, and significantly increases toxicity in patients with stages II or III rectal cancer.
There was no difference in efficacy between the two combinations. Toxicity was greater with the LV + 5-FU + IFN-alpha regimen because of the flu-like syndrome.
The addition of postoperative radiation therapy to chemotherapy in Dukes' B and C rectal cancer did not alter the subsequent incidence of distant disease, although there was a reduction in locoregional relapse when compared with chemotherapy alone.
Despite significant downsizing, chemoradiation did not result in increased sphincter preservation rate in comparison with short-term preoperative radiotherapy. The surgeons' decisions were subjective and based on pre-treatment tumour volume at least in clinical complete responders.
To resolve the issue in question, a meta-analysis of relevant studies is required, and new trials should be launched to explore new drug combinations against observation. Currently, delivery of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients undergoing preoperative radio(chemo)therapy is not evidence based.
Pathologic T and N stages significantly predicted for all 3 end points (LR, DM and OS) on multivariate analysis. Investigations of more aggressive adjuvant chemotherapy appear warranted for pathologic stage T3/T4 or N1/2 rectal cancer.
Total mesorectal excision cures carcinoma of the rectum and provides excellent local control through resection of the entire unit of regional spread that is excised, intact and with negative circumferential margins. Total mesorectal excision is compatible with autonomic nerve preservation and with sphincter preservation. The current role of combined modality adjuvant therapy, which is standard therapy following conventional surgery, should be reconsidered in patients who have undergone resection in accordance with TME.
These retrospective data suggest that, for some patients, postoperative chemotherapy can be spared. For patients with ypN2 status, an intensification of the postoperative chemotherapy should be considered. Further evaluation in prospective studies is urgently recommended.
1. FDG PET/CT is a useful technique to in diagnosing recurrent ovarian cancer. 2. PET/CT depicts/detects recurrent ovarian cancer with higher diagnostic accuracy comparing to the standard imaging and provides the chance to detect disease at an earlier stage during follow-up.
The availability of CA125 results when patients attend for routine follow-up has improved their overall management in our clinics. It has reduced patient and physician anxiety and unsatisfactory out-of-clinic telephone communication. We recommend this change of practice to all Gynaecologic Oncology Centres engaged in active routine follow-up of their patients with epithelial ovarian cancer.
Intensive follow up after curative resection for colorectal cancer improves survival. Large trials are required to identify which components of intensive follow up are most beneficial.
OPN may be a clinically useful adjunct to CA125 in detecting recurrent ovarian cancer.
Color Doppler analysis added to transvaginal gray-scale ultrasonography seems to be a helpful tool in the diagnosis of recurrent tumors in the central region of the pelvis.
We showed that routine US might play a role in the follow-up of gynecologic malignancies, especially in the group of asymptomatic patients, while CT/MRI imaging might be more properly applied to patients with clinical or serological signs of disease.
In our experience, FDG-PET/CT has the greatest utility in settings of suspected ovarian cancer recurrence, particularly in patients with rising CA-125 levels and negative conventional imaging. FDG-PET/CT was specifically helpful in optimizing the selection of patients for site-specific treatment, including radiation treatment planning, and aided in the selection of optimal surgical candidates. The co-registered metabolic-anatomic information from combined FDG-PET/CT holds promise in replacing the single imaging procedures.
PET is accurate in detecting the recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinoma. As a non-invasive method, PET might be a fairly effective tool for monitoring and locating the recurrence of ovarian carcinoma.
This study confirmed the safety of Seprafilm adhesion barrier with respect to abdominal abscess, pelvic abscess, and pulmonary embolism when administered to patients undergoing abdominopelvic surgery. Foreign body reaction was not reported for any patient. However, wrapping the suture or staple line of a fresh bowel anastomosis with Seprafilm should be avoided, because the data suggest that this practice may increase the risk of sequelae associated with anastomotic leak.
This study represents the first controlled, prospective evaluation of postoperative abdominal adhesion formation and prevention after general abdominal surgery using standardized, direct peritoneal visualization. In this study, HA membrane was safe and significantly reduced the incidence, extent, and severity of postoperative abdominal adhesions.
Glycerol hyaluronate/carboxymethylcellulose was shown to effectively reduce adhesions to the midline incision and adhesions between the omentum and small bowel after abdominal surgery. Safety profiles for the treatment and no treatment control groups were similar with the exception of more infection complications associated with glycerol hyaluronate/carboxymethylcellulose use. Animal models did not predict these complications.
The overall bowel obstruction rate was unchanged; however, adhesive small-bowel obstruction requiring reoperation was significantly reduced by the use of Seprafilm, which was the only factor that predicted this outcome.
Seprafilm antiadhesions membrane appears effective in reducing the severity of postoperative adhesions after major abdominal surgery, although the incidence of adhesions was not diminished. The authors recommend using Seprafilm when relaparotomy or second-look intervention is planned. Long-term studies are needed to assess the cost-effectiveness and value of Seprafilm in preventing bowel obstruction, chronic abdominal pain, and infertility.
Previous surgery significantly increases the operating time during subsequent surgery by a median of 18 minutes. This information may be of use in the planning of surgical workload and highlights the needs for cost-effective adhesion prevention strategies.
Although many investigators are incorporating adhesion prevention barriers into their routine clinical situations, physician acceptance is constrained by technical difficulties.
In this preliminary study, 4% icodextrin lavage plus instillation was well tolerated and reduced adhesion formation and reformation following laparoscopic gynaecological surgery. A Phase III pivotal study is currently in progress.
There is a high relative risk of adhesion-related problems after open lower abdominal surgery and a correspondingly high workload associated with these readmissions. This is influenced by the initial site of surgery, colon and rectum having both the greatest impact on workload and highest relative risk of directly adhesion-related problems. The study provides sound justification for improved adhesion prevention strategies.
Although the adhesiolysis hospitalization rate has remained constant since 1988, inpatient expenditures have decreased by nearly 10% because of a 15% decrease in the average length of stay. The increased use of laparoscopy during this 6-year period does not appear to be associated with a concomitant reduction in the adhesiolysis hospitalization rate, suggesting that the causes of adhesion formation warrant further research.
Lovastatin reduces the risk for the first acute major coronary event in men and women with average TC and LDL-C levels and below-average HDL-C levels. These findings support the inclusion of HDL-C in risk-factor assessment, confirm the benefit of LDL-C reduction to a target goal, and suggest the need for reassessment of the National Cholesterol Education Program guidelines regarding pharmacological intervention.
Pravastatin did not reduce either all-cause mortality or CHD significantly when compared with usual care in older participants with well-controlled hypertension and moderately elevated LDL-C. The results may be due to the modest differential in total cholesterol (9.6%) and LDL-C (16.7%) between pravastatin and usual care compared with prior statin trials supporting cardiovascular disease prevention.
In blacks and nonblack subgroups, rates were not lower in the amlodipine or lisinopril groups than in the chlorthalidone group for either the primary CHD or any other prespecified clinical outcome, and diuretic-based treatment resulted in the lowest risk of heart failure. While the improved outcomes with chlorthalidone were more pronounced for some outcomes in blacks than in nonblacks, thiazide-type diuretics remain the drugs of choice for initial therapy of hypertension in both black and nonblack hypertensive patients.
Our results suggest that the effect of bezafibrate on progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis could be at least partly attributed to a rise in HDL3 cholesterol and a decrease in the total number of apo B-containing lipoproteins.
Bezafibrate was safe and effective in elevating HDL-C levels and lowering triglycerides. An overall trend in a reduction of the incidence of primary end points was observed. The reduction in the primary end point in patients with high baseline triglycerides (> or =200 mg/dL) requires further confirmation.
Evidence of inflammation after MI is associated with increased risk of recurrent coronary events. Therapy with pravastatin may decrease this risk, an observation consistent with a nonlipid effect of this agent.
These results demonstrate that the benefit of cholesterol-lowering therapy extends to the majority of patients with coronary disease who have average cholesterol levels.
IHE was of substantial benefit for the control of glycemia, significantly diminished the need for antidiabetic drugs, and reduced a cluster of risk factors but had no effect on the control of blood lipids. This could be one major reason for the failure of IHE, effective lowering of blood pressure, and clofibric acid to prevent cardiovascular complications. Clofibric acid was only effective in reducing triglycerides.
Thus prolonged gemfibrozil treatment postpones cardiac events. This protective effect presumably involves both attenuation of atherosclerosis and mechanisms related to acute cardiac events.
The most plausible explanation for the discrepancy between cancer incidence and cancer-specific mortality, based mainly on comparison with untreated groups, is delayed diagnosis. The increased cancer and total mortality is most probably due to chance, based on the later reversal of trends.
Bezafibrate has no effect on the incidence of coronary heart disease and of stroke combined but may reduce the incidence of non-fatal coronary events, particularly in those aged <65 years at entry, in whom all coronary events may also be reduced.
Long-term prognosis of ACS survivors varied substantially according to conventional risk factor profile. Pravastatin reduced coronary risk within all risk levels; however, absolute risk remained high in treated patients with unfavorable profiles. Our risk stratification strategy enables identification of ACS survivors who remain at very high risk despite statin therapy.
This prospective analysis indicates that during prolonged exposure, 40 mg of pravastatin is well tolerated, with no excess of noncardiovascular serious adverse events, including liver function abnormalities and laboratory and clinical evidence for myositis. These extensive safety and tolerability data provide important information for therapeutic decisions regarding this pharmacological agent.
Concentrations of HDL-C achieved with gemfibrozil treatment predicted a significant reduction in CHD events in patients with low HDL-C levels. However, the change in HDL-C levels only partially explained the beneficial effect of gemfibrozil.
Gemfibrozil therapy resulted in a significant reduction in the risk of major cardiovascular events in patients with coronary disease whose primary lipid abnormality was a low HDL cholesterol level. The findings suggest that the rate of coronary events is reduced by raising HDL cholesterol levels and lowering levels of triglycerides without lowering LDL cholesterol levels.
Treatment with pravastatin significantly reduced the incidence of myocardial infarction and death from cardiovascular causes without adversely affecting the risk of death from noncardiovascular causes in men with moderate hypercholesterolemia and no history of myocardial infarction.
In this prospective trial, pravastatin reduced CRP levels at both 12 and 24 weeks in a largely LDL-C-independent manner. These data provide evidence that statins may have anti-inflammatory effects in addition to lipid-lowering effects.
Long-term treatment of CHD patients with atorvastatin to achieve NCEP lipid targets significantly reduces total and coronary mortality, coronary morbidity and stroke, in comparison to patients receiving 'usual' medical care. Treatment with atorvastatin is well tolerated and cost-effective.
Aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol levels to below 100 mg per deciliter reduced the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts. Low-dose warfarin did not reduce the progression of atherosclerosis.
Simvastatin was effective and well tolerated at doses of 20, 40, and 80 mg/d in Asian patients with coronary heart disease. Titration enabled the majority to achieve target LDL-C levels of < or = 100 mg/dL.
Simvastatin 80 mg provides additional LDL-C and triglyceride reductions compared to the 40 mg dose and has an excellent safety and tolerability profile.
Improving dyslipidemia in type 2 diabetic subjects had no effect on the progress of ultrasonically measured arterial disease, although the lower rate of "definite CHD events" in the treated group suggests that this might result in a reduction in the incidence of coronary heart disease.
The ENCORE I trial demonstrates that multicenter studies on coronary endothelial function are feasible. After 6 months' treatment, nifedipine improved coronary endothelial function in the most constricted segment. The combination of nifedipine and cerivastatin tended to improve endothelial function; however, this only reached significance in an analysis of all coronary segments.
In our study, the -491A/T polymorphism in the apo E gene promoter region modulated the lipid-lowering efficiency of atorvastatin and bezafibrate in CHL patients. Such influence might explain some of the interindividual response variabilities observed for the two drugs, and could help in CHL management.
Despite the decreased statistical power due to its premature stopping, the results of the GISSI-P suggest that a low-dose treatment with pravastatin (20 mg daily) is effective in reducing blood lipids, and underline the importance of long-term compliance with treatments in the search for a maximal effective dosage. Furthermore, the effects of a statin on total and coronary mortality quantified for the first time in a population exposed to Mediterranean dietary and lifestyle habits are markedly consistent with those obtained in different settings.
At the doses compared in this study, simvastatin led to greater increases in HDL cholesterol and apo A-I levels than atorvastatin. At the maximum dose comparison, there were fewer drug-related gastrointestinal symptoms and clinically significant aminotransferase elevations with simvastatin.
There was no detectable antagonistic effect when simvastatin and folic acid/vitamin B12 were administered concomitantly.
Both cerivastatin and branded pravastatin were well tolerated and effective in lowering LDL-C by > or = 20% versus baseline. A cost savings in favor of cerivastatin was a reflection of the lower drug acquisition cost of cerivastatin compared with branded pravastatin.
Most patients at high risk for CHD reached LDL-C goals with atorvastatin 10-80 mg/day. Seventy-two % of patients reached target with atorvastatin 10 mg/day, which may simplify clinical management and should encourage better adherence to recommendations.
Probucol reduced cholesterol levels and stabilized plaque, leading to a lower incidence of cardiac events in these hypercholesterolemic patients.
These findings suggest that in a typical clinical setting, a nonpharmacologic intervention of diet and exercise may not produce the desired overall lipid changes in the majority of dyslipidemic patients.
In comparison with dietary measures alone, the combination of a low-cholesterol diet and simvastatin after heart transplantation led to a significant reduction in cholesterol levels, a significantly higher long-term survival rate, and a lower incidence of GVD.
The study has 80% power (at the 5% level) to detect a relative difference of 20% in CHD endpoints between the calcium channel blocker-based regimen and the beta-blocker-based regimen. The lipid-lowering limb of the study has 90% power at the 1% level to detect a relative difference of 30% in CHD endpoints between groups.
Intensive lipid-lowering therapy with 80 mg of atorvastatin per day in patients with stable CHD provides significant clinical benefit beyond that afforded by treatment with 10 mg of atorvastatin per day. This occurred with a greater incidence of elevated aminotransferase levels.
The association between reduction of cholesterol concentrations and deaths not related to illness warrants further investigation. Additionally, the failure of cholesterol lowering to affect overall survival justifies a more cautious appraisal of the probable benefits of reducing cholesterol concentrations in the general population.
Extrapolation of this evidence of carcinogenesis from rodents to humans is an uncertain process. Longer-term clinical trials and careful postmarketing surveillance during the next several decades are needed to determine whether cholesterol-lowering drugs cause cancer in humans. In the meantime, the results of experiments in animals and humans suggest that lipid-lowering drug treatment, especially with the fibrates and statins, should be avoided except in patients at high short-term risk of coronary heart disease.
LS can effectively stage most patients and reliably predict which of them will benefit from LA. Intervention for unresectable patients can then be limited to laparoscopic or endoscopic bypass. The main limitation is that LS may underestimate PV and regional lymph node involvement.
This study demonstrates that extended laparoscopy is accurate and safe and makes exploration unnecessary in many patients with potentially resectable peripancreatic malignancy. In this series, 76% of patients explored were resected, compared with the authors' experience between 1983 and 1993 of 35%. The authors believe that laparoscopy is an important component in the staging of this group of patients and should be performed before exploration.
LUS is useful in evaluating the primary tumor and peripancreatic vascular anatomy. When standard laparoscopic findings are equivocal, LUS allowed accurate determination of resectability. Supplementing laparoscopy with LUS offers improved assessment and preoperative staging of pancreatic cancer.
In patients with a negative CT for metastases, laparoscopic identification of metastases avoided unnecessary laparotomy in 29 of 99 (29%) patients with pancreatic cancer. Staging laparoscopy is indicated in all cases of pancreatic malignancy before an attempt at a surgical cure.
Laparoscopy and CT independently and reliably predicted unresectability of pancreatic cancer, but the methods were inaccurate in forecasting resectability. The results suggest that CT examination should be done in patients who are candidates for attempted curative surgical procedures, whereas laparoscopy should be restricted to Those Judged resectable at CT.
Laparoscopic exploration for digestive cancers is a legitimate technique. It allows the detection of lesions that are not identified by conventional imaging techniques, permits a more accurate assessment of the resectability of a tumor and reduces the number of unnecessary laparotomies. The incidence of metastases at the site of the trocar is low and is closely linked to the presence of disseminated disease and manipulation of the tumor.
MRI can be recommended has the first examination in patients bearing pancreatic tumors, complemented by EUS if the findings of MRI are non-conclusive. For detection of distant metastasis, only the combination of all preoperative examination was proved to be more accurate than a single technique.
Unnecessary laparotomy can be safely avoided by SL-LUS in many patients with HPB malignancies, reducing costs and morbidity.
Staging laparoscopy associated with laparoscopic ultrasonography is superior to all other staging methods. It should be the first step of a potentially curative surgical treatment (five cases only in this series) or of a palliative bypass. Laparotomy was avoided in 12 cases.
Diagnostic laparoscopy supported by laparoscopic ultrasonography enables detection of previously unsuspected metastases; thus, needless laparotomy can be avoided. It should therefore be considered the first step in any potentially curative surgical procedure.
Laparoscopy spared one in five patients a laparotomy while reducing hospital stay and morbidity. Targeting laparoscopy to patients at high risk for unresectable disease requires consideration of disease-specific factors; however, the surgeons' preoperative impression of resectability is also important.
Diagnostic laparoscopy with LUS is highly accurate in TNM staging and assessment of resectability of pancreatic cancer and should be considered an important modality in the assessment algorithm.
Despite the improvements in image quality obtained with multidetector-row technology, CT imaging remains a relatively nonspecific test for predicting resectability in patients with adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas. Minimally invasive modalities with higher specificity, particularly laparoscopy, continue to have an important role in staging pancreatic head adenocarcinoma.
This population-based study demonstrates that surgeons appear to use laparoscopy in a subset of patients at high risk for metastatic disease. The combination of current staging techniques is associated with a high proportion of resectability for patients taken to surgical exploration. With current imaging modalities, selective application of laparoscopy with a dual-phase CT scan as the cornerstone of staging is a sound clinical approach to evaluate pancreatic cancer patients for potential resectability.
Preoperative computed tomography is a reliable technique to detect tumor metastasis in patients with pancreatic or periampullary cancer. Unlike other investigators, we found that only 10% of patients with periampullary or pancreatic cancer and 14% of patients with pancreatic cancer might profit from laparoscopy. Because of this low number, laparoscopy cannot generally be recommended for patients with pancreatic or periampullary cancer before laparotomy.
Staging laparoscopy, combined with spiral CT, allowed stratification of patients into 3 treatment groups that correlated with treatment opportunity and subsequent survival. Among the 125 patients, laparoscopy obviated 39 unnecessary operations and irradiation in patients with metastatic disease not detectable by CT. Laparoscopic staging can help focus aggressive treatment on patients with pancreatic cancer who might benefit.
LUS, when combined with laparoscopic manipulations, may overcome many of the limitations of laparoscopy alone in the investigation of pancreatic lesions by providing an accurate diagnosis and assessment of the size and extent of the local dissemination.
With accurate preoperative staging using spiral CT and EUS, laparoscopy would detect tumours which were unresectable in 13% of patients with pancreatic head cancer. Laparoscopy remains useful in selected patients, such as those with preoperative uncertain resectability, in whom it can prevent unnecessary laparotomy in one fourth of patients.
Integrated standard imaging studies achieved reasonable diagnostic accuracy in our analysis. A single classification based on clinical stage and tumor diameter evaluated by imaging predicts prognosis in patients with pancreatic carcinoma.
In this study, diagnostic laparoscopy may have prevented unnecessary laparotomies for exploration or palliation in 18% of all patients (40 of 226). The procedure is of doubtful benefit for patients with esophageal tumors because the current findings show that only 6% of explorative laparotomies could be prevented. In patients with periampullary tumors, the initial benefit was 15%, but the risk of a late laparotomy is relatively high (30%).
Laparoscopic staging is a safe procedure with low morbidity and without mortality in this series. It has shown no benefit in esophageal cancer, but seems beneficial for staging tumors located at the gastroesophageal junction, proximal bile duct tumors, liver tumors, and pancreatic body and tail tumors. The value of laparoscopic staging for patients with periampullary tumors is not as great as stated in previous studies and is still the subject of investigation.
Because of the limited detection rate for unresectable metastatic disease and the likely absence of a large gain after switching from surgical to endoscopic palliation, laparoscopic staging should not be performed routinely in patients with peripancreatic carcinoma.
The potentially limited usefulness of diagnostic laparoscopy in this series, in retrospect, raises the question of whether routinely using diagnostic laparoscopy in staging tumors of the pancreatic head is cost effective.
Laparoscopy was useful in decreasing the number of non-therapeutic laparotomies, but laparoscopic ultrasound gave little additional benefit. The utility of LS was dependent on tumour type and in particular was of marginal benefit for colorectal liver metastases. LS remains a useful staging tool but should be applied selectively.
Whereas diagnostic laparoscopy is sensitive for the detection of small metastases and offers histologic verification, intrahepatic alterations are not detectable by sole visual inspection.MRI may compensate for this deficiency, but histologic proof of malignancy may be problematic. To date, no definite decision in favor of one of the presented procedures for the staging of abdominal metastases can be given.
SL increases the resectability rate, decreases the nontherapeutic laparotomy rate, and decreases LOS in patients with unresectable disease. SL is poor at detecting unresectability as a result of vascular invasion only, but this accounts for less than one-fifth of patients. Laparoscopic sonography and palliation may further decrease the need for EL.
The utility of staging laparoscopy depends on diagnosis. It is recommended for continued use in pancreatic head and gallbladder cancers but not in ampullary malignancies.
During the time period of this study, the yield of staging laparoscopy decreased and exceeded 10% only for patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. When high-quality cross-sectional imaging reveals no evidence of unresectable disease, routine staging laparoscopy may not be warranted for pancreatic or peripancreatic tumors other than presumed pancreatic adenocarcinoma.
According to clinical features and computed tomography findings, laparoscopic exploration is recommended for cancer staging. Helical computed tomography and staging laparoscopy categorize patients into those with localized and those with metastatic disease which considerably correlated with survivals.
Laparoscopy and LUS can be used to precisely estimate the possibility of resection of pancreatic head cancer, and prevent unnecessary exploratory laparotomy and its complications. It can be used as a routine examination before exploratory laparotomy.
The overall publication rate of abstracts reporting endoscopic research is 25%, lower than that in any published report from other medical societies. Abstracts from the United States were less likely to be published in full-manuscript form. Although there was no positive outcome bias for acceptance of abstracts for presentation at the meeting, there was bias toward publication of statistically significant results. Further investigations are warranted to determine the variation in the publication of research results according to country of origin and to determine factors that hinder publication of GI endoscopic research in manuscript form.
Leukocytosis, elevated gamma GT and raised CRP predict shorter survival and may help to guide the choice of palliative intervention for patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer.
The preoperative P/L ratio reflects an index of tumor invasiveness and merits prospective evaluation as an adjunct to CA19-9 in determining the requirement for laparoscopic staging in patients with potentially resectable periampullary malignancy.
Radical (extended) pancreaticoduodenectomy can be performed with similar mortality but some increased morbidity compared to standard pancreaticoduodenectomy. The data to date fail to indicate that a survival benefit is derived from the addition of a distal gastrectomy and retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy to a pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy.
In patients at low risk of pancreatic fistula, intra-abdominal drains can be safely removed on POD 3 after standard pancreatic resections. A prolonged period of drain insertion is associated with a higher rate of postoperative complications with increased hospital stay and costs. The manuscript is a randomized trial, registered in the NLM database as 
This study provides level 1 data, suggesting that elimination of intraperitoneal drainage in all cases of PD increases the frequency and severity of complications.
In this study, operative drains were used nearly half of the time and were associated with longer hospital stay, and higher grade ≥3 morbidity, fistula, and readmission rates. They did not decrease the need for reintervention or alter mortality rates. Routine prophylactic drainage after pancreatic resection could be safely abandoned.
POPF is a complex and multifactorial complication after pancreatic surgery. On the basis of the present results and review of the RCTs, the value of ID and its management after pancreatic surgery remain unclear.
This study suggests that abdominal drainage should not be considered routinely after PD in patients at low risk of PF. A no drain policy may reduce hospital stay after PD.
Placement of closed suction drains during pancreaticoduodenectomy does not appear to decrease the rate of secondary drainage procedures or reoperation, and may be associated with increased pancreatic fistula formation and overall morbidity. These data support foregoing routine primary operative drainage at time of pancreaticoduodenectomy.
First, PD after DP does not confer a reduction in morbidity or the need for therapeutic intervention versus patients with no drains. Second, the presence of a drain infrequently was helpful in detecting complications. Third, a multi-institutional, randomized study is recommended.
Perioperative treatment with pasireotide decreased the rate of clinically significant postoperative pancreatic fistula, leak, or abscess. (Funded by Novartis Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In contrast to some previous single-institution studies, we found that increased age is an independent risk factor for mortality after pancreatic resection. For all ages, mortality rates were higher at L-V hospitals, but the difference worsened significantly with increasing age. Older patients had longer lengths of stay, were less likely to be discharged home, and more likely to require care at an inpatient nursing or acute care facility at the time of discharge.
An objective, universally accepted definition and clinical grading of PPH is important for the appropriate management and use of interventions in PPH. Such a definition also would allow comparisons of results from future clinical trials. Such standardized definitions are necessary to compare, in a nonpartisan manner, the outcomes of studies and the evaluation of novel operative treatment modalities in pancreatic surgery.
The 5-HT3-receptor antagonists offer enhanced control of emesis while causing few side effects. For highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimens, the combination of 5-HT3-receptor antagonists and dexamethasone appears superior to other single agents or combinations in preventing nausea and vomiting.
Dronabinol or ondansetron was similarly effective for the treatment of CINV. Combination therapy with dronabinol and ondansetron was not more effective than either agent alone. Active treatments were well tolerated.
In selected patients, the cannabinoids tested in these trials may be useful as mood enhancing adjuvants for controlling chemotherapy related sickness. Potentially serious adverse effects, even when taken short term orally or intramuscularly, are likely to limit their widespread use.
This study provided information on current status of patients' perceptions of side effects of anticancer treatment. These results could be used in pre-treatment patient education and counselling.
Chemotherapy-experienced women with ovarian cancer have consistent preferences for the best and worst health states associated with the side effects of chemotherapy. Patients are more averse to nausea and vomiting than many other symptoms. Women's perceptions of pancytopenia may be dependent upon the number of prior cycles of chemotherapy and site of care for anemia, thrombocytopenia, and febrile neutropenia.
Monthly infusions of pamidronate as a supplement to chemotherapy can protect against skeletal complications in women with stage IV breast cancer who have osteolytic bone metastases.
In the current study, monthly infusions of 90 mg of pamidronate as a supplement to antineoplastic therapy were found to be well tolerated and superior to antineoplastic therapy alone in preventing skeletal complications and palliating symptoms for at least 24 months in breast carcinoma patients with osteolytic bone metastases.
These results indicate that 6 mg i.v. ibandronate is effective and safe in the treatment of bone metastases from breast cancer.
The results of this analysis strengthen the statistical validity of the preliminary results of the Z-FAST and ZO-FAST studies, showing that upfront zoledronic acid prevents aromatase inhibitor-associated bone loss more effectively than delayed-start zoledronic acid in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer receiving letrozole. Additionally, disease recurrence appears to be lower with upfront zoledronic acid, but further follow-up is needed to confirm these interim results.
Our data suggest that (1) patients with lymphoma who have positive HIV have responses to chemotherapy similar to those expected for patients who are HIV-negative; (2) most infectious complications are manageable with appropriate therapy during treatment; and (3) after completion of chemotherapy, treatment should focus on control of progression of AIDS-related complications.
Clodronate can reduce the incidence and number of new bony and visceral metastases in women with breast cancer who are at high risk for distant metastases.
At 36 months, immediate ZOL was more effective in preserving BMD during letrozole therapy. Immediate versus delayed ZOL led to significantly improved DFS. Benefits are observed in the context of a favorable, well-established safety profile for letrozole and ZOL.
The addition of zoledronic acid to adjuvant endocrine therapy improves disease-free survival in premenopausal patients with estrogen-responsive early breast cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Premenopausal women receiving chemotherapy for BC sustained significant bone loss during the first year, without recovery during the second year. ZA effectively prevented bone loss during the first year of chemotherapy. BMD remained stable 1 yr after completion of ZA. Serum CTX increased significantly by 12 and 24 months. More frequent administration may be required to suppress bone resorption in this patient population.
In IV BP-naïve breast cancer patients with bone metastases, denosumab suppresses bone turnover and seems to reduce SRE risk similarly to IV BPs, with a safety profile consistent with an advanced cancer population receiving systemic therapy.
These findings indicate that oral clodronate has a beneficial effect on the skeletal morbidity associated with breast cancer and should be considered as antiosteolytic therapy in affected patients. It deserves further investigation as an adjuvant therapy in operable breast cancer and in patients with nonosseous recurrence who are at high risk for bone metastases.
Oral ibandronate is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for metastatic bone disease. The 50 mg dose is being further evaluated in clinical trials, and this dose was recently approved in the European Union for the prevention of skeletal events in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases.
Clodronate interferes with the prognostic value of serum MMP-2. Clodronate has a negative impact on outcome among patients with low serum MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels, while no such influence is observed among patients with high MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels.
Women with metastatic breast cancer receiving bisphosphonates for prevention of SREs experienced an overall increase in HRQOL. Variations among women's experiences are explained partly by such characteristics as a history of SREs.
The underestimation of variability in data associated with the use of the events-per-person-years analysis leads to unduly narrow confidence intervals for complication rates and inflated false-positive error rates in treatment comparisons. A random-effects Poisson model provides a valid, robust basis for describing the clinical course of bone complications and evaluating treatment effects.
These results are consistent with the notion that ZOL affects breast cancer metastasis to visceral organs as well as bone. These effects of ZOL may be attributable to inhibition of migration and invasion of breast cancer cells. Clinical relevance of our experimental results needs to be determined in breast cancer patients with visceral metastases.
Monthly oral ibandronate improves bone density and normalizes bone turnover in patients treated with anastrozole.
High dose aminobisphosphonates are most effective for the treatment of acute hypercalcaemia and delay time to relapse. Bisphosphonates significantly reduce SREs and delay the time to first SRE in patients with bony metastatic disease but do not affect survival. Benefit is demonstrated after administration for at least 6-12 months. The greatest body of evidence supports the use of intravenous aminobisphosphonates. Further evidence is required to support use in the adjuvant setting.
A preoperative biliary stent was associated with an increased risk of wound or intra-abdominal complications; a stent may prolong the length of hospital stay. However, length of time under anesthesia, amount of blood loss, and transfusion requirements were not altered. A biliary stent should be used with a high degree of selectivity in the management of patients with resectable periampullary masses.
PBD was associated with increased operative time, intraoperative blood loss, and incidence of wound infection. Although PBD did not increase major postoperative morbidity and mortality, it should be used selectively in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Preoperative biliary instrumentation and biliary drainage do not affect early or late outcome in patients undergoing pancreatoduodenectomy.
Preoperative biliary decompression increases the risk for postoperative wound infections after pancreaticoduodenectomy. However, there was no increase in the risk of major postoperative complications or death associated with preoperative stent placement. Patients with extrahepatic biliary obstruction do not necessarily require immediate laparotomy to undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy with acceptable morbidity and mortality rates; such patients can be treated by endoscopic biliary drainage without concern for increased major complications and death associated with subsequent pancreaticoduodenectomy.
Preoperative biliary drainage did not influence the incidence of postoperative complications, and although it can be performed safely in jaundiced patients it should not be used routinely.
In half the patients, unresectability is mainly the result of intraabdominal metastases. Presurgical imaging predicts unresectability based on local extension but is poor for assessing nodal metastases. In one third of patients, disease can be resected for cure with a long median survival. Curative resection depends on negative margins, and hepatic resection is necessary to achieve this. The T-staging system correlates with resectability, the need for hepatectomy, and overall survival.
Preoperative biliary drainage, but not preoperative biliary instrumentation alone, is associated with increased morbidity and mortality rates in patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy. This suggests that preoperative biliary drainage should be avoided whenever possible in patients with potentially resectable pancreatic and peripancreatic lesions. Such a change in current preoperative management may improve patient outcome after pancreaticoduodenectomy.
It is clear that cancer of the main hepatic duct junction has become a curable disease. The operation is a valid procedure that can be widely practiced by competent surgeons.
In both Lahey and Nagoya patients, survival was most favorable when resection of hilar cholangiocarcinoma was accomplished with margin-negative resections. Combined bile duct and liver resection with caudate lobectomy contributed to a higher margin-negative resection rate in the Nagoya cohort.
Quinolone-based antibacterial chemoprophylaxis protected patients from aerobic gram-negative bacillary infections. Augmentation of the gram-positive activity reduced the incidence of gram-positive infections but did not influence the overall incidence of febrile neutropenic episodes.
In this study amoxicillin/clavulanate was associated with a detectable clinical effect in the reduction of fever and infection in neutropenic children with cancer, especially those with acute leukemia and not receiving growth factors; the study was not powered to demonstrate a statistically significant effect in the overall patient population.
These results demonstrate that the addition of penicillin V to fluoroquinolone prophylaxis in granulocytopenic patients with cancer effectively reduces febrile episodes and the incidence of bacteremia, especially that due to streptococcal species.
Ciprofloxacin is at least as effective as the combination of neomycin/polymyxin/nalidixic acid in the prophylaxis of bacterial infections in myelosuppressed patients, and is better tolerated. Additional agents to prevent streptococcal infections are needed.
Prophylaxis with fluoroquinolones reduced the occurrence of infection in adult neutropenic patients without affecting the long-term survival. Moreover, it is especially beneficial for patients with severe neutropenia and during the active phase of the disease.
Prophylactic ciprofloxacin plus roxithromycin during CDE chemotherapy reduced the incidence of FL, the number of infections, the use of therapeutic antibiotics and hospitalizations due to FL by approximately 50%, with reduced number of infectious deaths. For patients with similar risk for FL, the prophylactic use of antibiotics should be considered.
These findings suggest that, despite increasing rates of antimicrobial resistance, levofloxacin prophylaxis during neutropenia may have a beneficial impact on morbidity and infection-related mortality. Continued monitoring of the rate of gram-negative bacteremia is warranted for timely detection of the loss of efficacy of fluoroquinolone prophylaxis.
During moxifloxacin prophylaxis, we observed a significantly increased incidence of Gram-negative bacteraemia and CDAD. Careful attention must be paid not to trade the particularly beneficial effects of fluoroquinolones in the neutropenic setting for such disadvantageous effects. Until further data are obtained, caution is warranted when applying fluoroquinolones with high anaerobic activity in the neutropenic setting.
Significant changes in antimicrobial use may affect certain gram-negative bacilli antimicrobial susceptibilities in ICUs.
Children hospitalized for fever and neutropenia who have persistent fever and an ANC of less than 100 after 48 hours are at high risk for morbidity and are more likely to require antibiotic changes and antifungal therapy. Children who initially lack signs of sepsis, are afebrile, and have an ANC of 100 or higher after 48 hours are at low risk for complications and could be selectively discharged on antimicrobials after a 48-hour period of inpatient hospitalization.
In areas where coagulase negative staphylococcal infections are common doctors must be aware of the possibility of cross infection with single strain, and the availability of more discriminatory methods of typing will facilitate the identification and control of such episodes.
This study demonstrates the effectiveness of a biodegradable polymer when used as an adjunct to standard closure methods for sealing significant intraoperative air leaks that develop from pulmonary surgery. Use of the sealant led to a reduction in postoperative air leaks, which may have decreased the length of hospitalization.
The use of TachoSil following pulmonary resection resulted in a reduction in air leakage compared with standard techniques. This reduction in air leakage resulted in a significant reduction in both the time to chest drain removal and the period of hospitalisation.
Vivostat fibrin sealant significantly reduces post-surgical air leakage and drainage volumes following lobectomy in pulmonary surgery and is suitable for routine use in this procedure.
Aerosolized fibrin glue appears to be safe and effective in reducing AAL. The overall incidence of AAL was reduced by 50% and PAAL occurred in only 1 treated patient (2% versus the usually reported 15%). Further studies with this and other methods are required to delineate routine versus selective use, to compare methods, and clarify cost benefit.
TC could be proven as well-tolerated and safe. In the subgroup of patients with established air leakage, TC showed superior potential in reduction of intra-operative air leakage as well as in reduction of intensity and duration of postoperative air leakage.
The surgical adhesive investigated here demonstrated a compelling safety profile and significant clinical efficacy to stop air leaks after lung resections.
Surgical lung sealant may be a useful adjunct to conventional techniques for reducing moderate and severe AAL after lobectomy, but its use seems to increase the risk of postoperative empyema.
This study demonstrates clear benefit from BioGlue in the treatment of alveolar air leaks through reduction of air leak duration, chest drainage time, and hospital stay. Systematic use of BioGlue may be warranted in adult thoracic surgical procedures (except pneumonectomy and decortication) when an air leak remains after all other steps to control it have failed.
Air leaks after lung resection occur in most patients. The application of this novel surgical sealant appears to be effective and safe in preventing postoperative air leaks.
In the group treated with fibrin glue, we observed significant advantages. Our experience shows that the use of fibrin glue can improve aerostasis control in nonanatomical resections with high risk of air leak.
This randomized study shows that Vivostat fibrin sealant is effective in preventing air leakage after small lung resections in pigs, even at high inspiratory pressures.
The use of BioGlue as a surgical lung sealant significantly decreased the duration of postoperative air leaks and the time to chest tube removal. Use of BioGlue facilitates the postoperative course following bullectomy.
Fibrin-glue-soaked bioabsorbable felt patches effectively seal intraoperative intractable air leaks. Felt patch use may increase the risk of postoperative infection. It should be considered for use on patients with fistulas that cannot be controlled by direct closure or otherwise intraoperatively and who may potentially develop uncontrollable air leakage postoperatively.
The mixing of atelocollagen with fibrin glue more effectively sealed pulmonary air leakage due to an increased elasticity of the glue while its adhesion strength decreased. The optimal concentration of atelocollagen in the fibrin glue to obtain the best sealing effect was 0.75%.
We achieved sutureless pneumostasis using bioabsorbable artificial pleura during video-assisted major pulmonary resection. This method may contribute to reducing hospitalization, especially in patients with poor pulmonary function.
Although comparative studies would assist in the clarification of the place of the product discussed with respect to other haemostatic or wound support techniques and to other fibrin sealants, the formulation reviewed here has been shown overall to be effective and well tolerated in a variety of haemostatic and wound healing support roles in numerous types of surgery. Fibrin sealant has also been shown to be useful when administered endoscopically, with superiority over sclerotherapy being shown after repeated application in patients with peptic ulceration. Fibrin sealant can therefore be considered useful in a number of surgical and endoscopic settings.
Postoperative complications are more likely to develop in patients with peripheral vascular disease or insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, or both. Postoperative mortality was found to be significantly higher in patients with vascular disease and those who underwent pneumonectomy.
Bronchoscopic treatment of bronchopleural fistula appears an efficient alternative, especially when surgical intervention cannot be done because of the physical condition of the patient.
Fibrin sealant is safe when it is applied properly, but there is a learning curve for surgeons who start using it. An autologous sealant or a sealant containing human instead of bovine thrombin is preferred, since repeated use of bovine thrombin may induce coagulopthies. The number of controlled clinical studies of FS is currently increasing, with the majority of the papers revealing a beneficial effect of FS when it is used as a hemostatic or sealing agent in cardiothoracic surgery.
A GRFG glue using FG jelly seals pulmonary air leaks effectively, simply, and safely during video-assisted thoracoscopic surgical procedures.
We concluded that this strong lung adhesion of the gelatin-poly(L-glutamic acid) hydrogel glue resulted in its superior sealing effect.
Our results in this particular patient group indicate that BioGlue is a reliable adjunct in the reduction of alveolar air leaks. Although further studies are necessary to establish the role of BioGlue in thoracic surgery in comparison to other sealants, these initial results are promising.
The institution of a lobectomy patient care pathway appeared to reduce length of stay and costs. The pathway provided a framework to begin systematic quality control measures to enhance patient care.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for primary unresectable ovarian carcinoma leads to the selection of a subset of patients sensitive to chemotherapy in whom optimal cytoreduction can be achieved after chemotherapy by standard surgery in a high proportion of cases. Conversely, aggressive surgery can be avoided in patients with initial chemoresistance, in whom the prognosis is known to be poor regardless of treatment.
The above findings indicate that chemotherapy in ovarian carcinoma leads to an increase in apoptosis by a p53-independent pathway, which involves the downregulation of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and survivin but not Bcl-XL. Furthermore, administering neoadjuvant chemotherapy (six cycles) as an alternative form of therapy for advanced epithelial ovarian cancer is more effective in inducing apoptosis than three cycles. However, the findings of this study need to be corroborated using a larger sample.
NACT followed by successful IDS can achieve good results in terms of survival outcomes in a high percentage of chemoresponsive IIIc ovarian cancer patients classified as unresectable at primary surgery. These results are in fact inferior to those achievable with optimal primary cytoreduction; however, they were quite similar to those seen with suboptimal primary cytoreduction.
IDS for advanced ovarian cancer may be associated with less morbidity compared to PDS and appears to require less use of hospital resources. If the ongoing randomised studies confirm that IDS does not adversely affect the long-term survival of these patients, morbidity related to ovarian cancer surgery may evolve as a crucial factor for choosing treatment options.
Patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma of FIGO Stage IIIC who will benefit only marginally from conventional therapy can be identified by evidence of large ascites volume. Higher tumor resection rates and longer median survival can be achieved in these patients by the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. A prospective randomized multicenter study currently is being performed by the Society for Gynecological Oncology in Germany to confirm these findings.
Neoadjuvant platinum-based combination chemotherapy and embolization via the anterior branches of the bilateral internal iliac arteries is an alternative treatment for patients with advanced ovarian epithelial carcinoma, in whom the chance of optimal cytoreductive surgery is low. The treatment can reduce blood loss, decrease operative time, and increase the rate of optimal cytoreductive surgery; but the median survival can't be improved significantly.
Survival rates were similar in patients with advanced stage ovarian cancer who underwent IDS or PDS. The rates of surgical resection and morbidity were reduced after IDS. IDS can be safely used in unresectable advanced stage ovarian cancer.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy does not compromise the survival of women treated for advanced ovarian cancer. Prospective randomized trials comparing neoadjuvant chemotherapy to conventional therapy to determine quality of life experiences and cost/benefit outcomes are now appropriate for women presenting with advanced ovarian cancer.
Debulking surgery significantly lengthened progression-free and overall survival. The risk of death was reduced by one third, after adjustment for a variety of prognostic factors.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in lieu of primary cytoreduction is associated with inferior overall survival compared to initial surgery. Increasing percent maximal cytoreduction is positively associated with median cohort survival; however, the negative survival effect of increasing number of chemotherapy cycles prior to interval surgery suggests that definitive operative intervention should be undertaken as early in the treatment program as possible.
Interval surgery following a concerted but suboptimal attempt at up-front cytoreduction does not appear to have an appreciable impact on survival outcome. Maximal primary cytoreductive surgery remains the standard of care for the majority of women with suspected advanced ovarian cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy represents a viable alternative management strategy for the limited number of patients felt to be optimally unresectable by an experienced ovarian cancer surgical team; however, currently available data suggest that the survival outcome achievable with initial chemotherapy is inferior to successful up-front cytoreductive surgery. Additional research is needed to devise universal selection criteria for neoadjuvant chemotherapy, determine the most efficacious treatment program, and characterize the appropriate proportion of patients in which an attempt at primary surgery should be abandoned in favor of initial chemotherapy.
The majority of responding SGO members do not treat patients with NACT followed by ID. Currently available studies of NACT/ID have been insufficient to convince most gynecologic oncologists to incorporate it into practice. Our results provide a benchmark against which further research can assess the penetration of NACT/ID into clinical practice.
If the optimal goal of IDS is defined as the surgery that is expected to result in long-term survival in the NAC setting treatment, our data on the assessment of peritoneal findings during the upfront PDS setting treatment suggest that only complete resection with no RD could be the optimal goal of IDS in the NAC setting treatment.
Platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy improved overall survival and recurrence-free survival at 5 years in this combined group of patients with early-stage ovarian cancer defined by the inclusion criteria of the ICON1 and ACTION trials.
This study confirms the activity and safety of gemcitabine in heavily pretreated patients with recurrent ovarian cancer.
Gemcitabine is a well-tolerated new drug with activity in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer patients.
Compared with SRS alone, the use of WBRT plus SRS did not improve survival for patients with 1 to 4 brain metastases, but intracranial relapse occurred considerably more frequently in those who did not receive WBRT. Consequently, salvage treatment is frequently required when up-front WBRT is not used.
Although accelerated WBI may improve local control this did not translate into improved overall survival in the patients studied.
Although no firm conclusions can be made regarding the efficacy of the combined treatment, this prospective study highlights the poor objective response rates and relatively poor symptom control despite standard treatment of brain metastases from NSCLC.
Primary chemotherapy is more feasible and can be an appropriate option for patients with synchronous brain metastasis when neurologic symptoms or signs are absent or controlled. The role and timing of WBRT should be defined in further studies in this clinical setting.
BrdUrd did not enhance the efficacy of the radiotherapy regimen tested, in spite of the fact that brain metastases have shown high labeling indices. The toxicity of this schedule of BrdUrd administration was apparently increased by ranitidine and phenytoin.
These results confirm the efficacy of chemotherapy in brain metastases of NSCLC and suggest that the timing (early or delayed) of WBRT did not influence survival of NSCLC with brain metastasis treated with concurrent chemotherapy.
The 3-month scan is a valuable prognostic factor for subsequent survival in patients with brain metastases treated with WBRT. Patients in the efaproxiral arm had a higher response rate at 3 and 6 months than those in the control arm.
Based on this analysis, we suggest the following three classes: Class 1: patients with KPS > or = 70, < 65 years of age with controlled primary and no extracranial metastases; Class 3: KPS < 70; Class 2- all others. Using these classes or stages, new treatment techniques can be tested on homogeneous patient groups.
Use of primary SRS alone in this setting is associated with an increasingly significant risk of BTR with increasing survival time. In addition, the majority of such recurrences are symptomatic and associated with a neurologic deficit, a finding not analyzed in recently reported experiences withholding whole brain radiation therapy as part of the primary treatment of brain metastasis.
Capecitabine is at least as effective, better tolerated and more convenient than i.v. 5-FU/leucovorin as treatment for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Analysis of data from two large phase III trials demonstrates that efficacy is not compromised in patients requiring a dose reduction for adverse events. The phase III data and an additional pharmacokinetic study support a lower starting dose in patients with moderate renal impairment at baseline (calculated creatinine clearance 30-50 ml/min) and a contra-indication in patients with severely impaired creatinine clearance at baseline (<30 ml/min). For patients with normal or mildly impaired renal function at baseline, the standard starting dose is well tolerated. The incidence and severity of adverse events in patients with moderate renal impairment at baseline who were treated with 5-FU/leucovorin was more pronounced, indicating that capecitabine provides a better-tolerated alternative.
Chemotherapy is effective in prolonging time to disease progression and survival in patients with advanced colorectal cancer. The survival benefit may be underestimated in this analysis as some patients in the control arms received chemotherapy.
Oral doxifluridine with leucovorin shows a comparable therapeutic efficacy to intravenous 5-FU regimen with high quality of life as postoperative adjuvant therapy. The oral regimen also can be safely given with appropriate toxicity and tolerability.
Recurrence after resection for rectal carcinoma is higher than after colon carcinoma. In those patients in whom reresection is possible, up to 50 percent may have long-term survival. Understanding patterns of recurrence and features that predispose to them may guide the physician in aggressive but more selective adjuvant therapy and recommendations for targeted surveillance in follow-up.
Oral capecitabine is an effective alternative to intravenous fluorouracil plus leucovorin in the adjuvant treatment of colon cancer.
This study confirmed that the majority of patients with MCRC prefer oral to i.v. therapy, although the OPdG regimen appears to be the most popular i.v. option. Capecitabine clearly represents an effective, well-tolerated oral alternative to i.v. 5-FU/LV.
This study, the largest such ongoing phase II trial, shows no significant activity of single-agent MMC in patients with advanced biliary tract carcinoma.
Adjuvant radiation therapy following aggressive resection, in certain circumstances, improves prognosis with acceptable operative mortality for stage IV gallbladder cancer.
When compared with heparin therapy, ART-123 therapy more significantly improves DIC and alleviates bleeding symptoms in DIC patients.
This surveillance confirmed the safety and efficacy of TM-α in clinical practice, thus TM-α may be an ideal treatment for patients with DIC based upon hematologic malignancy.
Mortality was reduced by 44 percent in this trial, but the difference did not reach the statistical significance. Circulating protein C and protein S levels were not modified by ATIII supplementation. High doses of ATIII concentrates significantly improved sepsis-induced DIC during septic shock. The trend toward improved survival suggests further randomized studies.
Moderate doses of antithrombin improve DIC scores, thereby increasing the recovery rate from DIC without any risk of bleeding in DIC patients with sepsis.
Recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin may improve sepsis-induced DIC diagnosed according to the JAAM criteria without an increased bleeding risk.
High-dose AT without concomitant heparin in septic patients with DIC may result in a significant mortality reduction. The adapted ISTH DIC score may identify patients with severe sepsis who potentially benefit from high-dose AT treatment.
This study confirmed the safety and efficacy of TM-α in daily clinical practice for patients with APL and DIC. TM-α appeared to reduce hemorrhagic early deaths due to DIC in patients with APL who were receiving antileukemic treatment.
Antithrombin may be a more effective treatment for coagulation and fibrinolysis disorders than gabexate mesilate in infection-related DIC, but there was no difference in 28-day mortality.
ART-123 is a safe intervention in critically ill patients with sepsis and suspected disseminated intravascular coagulation. The study provided evidence suggestive of efficacy supporting further development of this drug in sepsis-associated coagulopathy including disseminated intravascular coagulation. Future study should focus on using ART-123 in the subgroup of patients most likely to respond to this agent.
Outcome reporting bias is an under-recognised problem that affects the conclusions in a substantial proportion of Cochrane reviews. Individuals conducting systematic reviews need to address explicitly the issue of missing outcome data for their review to be considered a reliable source of evidence. Extra care is required during data extraction, reviewers should identify when a trial reports that an outcome was measured but no results were reported or events observed, and contact with trialists should be encouraged.
Insight into the pathogenesis of DIC has resulted in better strategies for clinical management, including straightforward diagnostic criteria and potentially beneficial supportive treatment options.
Random errors are a frequent cause of overestimation of intervention effects in meta-analyses. Surpassing the optimal information size will provide sufficient protection against overestimation.
Our findings suggest that an FDP-based criterion may be applicable for the diagnosis of leukemia-associated DIC. Although it appears to be simple and practicable enough for clinical use, prospective validation of this criterion is needed.
Both strategies effectively controlled neuropathic pain, but according to the adopted selection design arm A is preferable to arm B for pain control.
The current evidence is moderate, both in respect to the number of directly comparative studies and in the quality of reporting of these studies. No clear superiority in efficacy and tolerability of morphine over other opioids was found in pair-wise and network analyses. Based on these results, a justification for the placement of morphine as the reference standard for the treatment of severe chronic pain cannot be supported.
Across Europe and Israel, treatment of cancer pain is suboptimal. Pain and pain relief should be considered integral to the diagnosis and treatment of cancer; management guidelines should be revised to improve pain control in patients with cancer.
There is no evidence from the included trials of a significant difference in analgesia or adverse effects between oxycodone and morphine or hydromorphone. The evidence was graded as high quality on the basis of a well-conducted meta-analysis, with no limitations likely to affect the outcome, in addition to consistency in the results of the other studies. The research was conducted using participants relevant to cancer and palliative care populations. Oxycodone can be recommended as an alternative to morphine or hydromorphone for cancer-related pain.
Erlotinib had limited activity in patients with esophageal cancer, and responses and some protracted stable disease were observed in those with squamous cell carcinoma. Efficacy according to EGFR status could not be assessed given the rarity of EGFR-negative tumors. The current results indicated that further evaluation of this agent in squamous cell carcinoma is warranted. Cancer 2011. © 2010 American Cancer Society.
Lapatinib is well tolerated, with modest single-agent activity in advanced/metastatic gastric cancer patients. Potential molecular correlatives were identified which warrant further validation.
EGFR overexpression was observed in a subset of cases with GC and was associated with an unfavourable prognosis. It will be important to evaluate EGFR status to interpret future clinical trials properly using EGFR targeted agents.
Despite discrepancies in the results from whole-tissue sections and TMAs, HER2 overexpression was positively correlated with aggressive biological behavior and was an independent poor prognostic factor for recurrence in differentiated GCs. Therefore, HER2-positive GCs should be considered for adjuvant trastuzumab therapy.
These findings provide evidence that contemporary evaluation of VEGF and EGFR expression may be crucial to select gastric cancer patients with poor prognosis who may benefit of tailored treatments.
Postoperative chemoradiotherapy should be considered for all patients at high risk for recurrence of adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal junction who have undergone curative resection.
The expression of VEGF may be a good prognostic indicator for patients with gastric carcinoma and may also be useful as a predictor of the mode of recurrence in patients with gastric carcinoma.
S-1 is an effective adjuvant treatment for East Asian patients who have undergone a D2 dissection for locally advanced gastric cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Increased activation of mTOR is frequent in human gastric cancer and overexpression of p-mTOR is an independent prognostic factor, suggesting that mTOR pathway could be a potential target for therapy of this malignancy.
FOLFIRINOX appeared to be the best regimen for advanced pancreatic cancer probabilistically, with a trend towards improvement in survival when compared with other regimens by indirect comparisons.
In a molecular subset analysis of patients from NCIC CTG PA.3, EGFR GCN and KRAS mutation status were not identified as markers predictive of a survival benefit from the combination of erlotinib with gemcitabine for the first-line treatment of APC.
Most reports of RCTs in MEDLINE can now be identified easily using "Randomized Controlled Trial" (Publication Type). More sensitive searches can be achieved by a brief strategy, the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination/Cochrane Highly Sensitive Search Strategy (2005 revision).
The maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib with gemcitabine, paclitaxel and concurrent radiation is 50 mg/d for patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Full dose maintenance erlotinib is well tolerated. Promising preliminary activity and overall survival were demonstrated.
Pemetrexed plus gemcitabine therapy did not improve OS. Single-agent gemcitabine remains the standard of care for advanced pancreatic cancer.
In patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine significantly improved overall survival, progression-free survival, and response rate, but rates of peripheral neuropathy and myelosuppression were increased. (Funded by Celgene; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Physicians and patients should view rash development as a positive event indicative of greater likelihood of clinical benefit. Further studies are required to identify patients most likely to develop rash and to determine if dose escalation to induce rash can improve efficacy.
Approximately 1 out of 10 advanced rectal cancers after preoperative radiotherapy or radiochemotherapy was characterized by DIS of over 5 mm. No significant difference was seen in the length of DIS between the 2 groups.
Preoperative short term radiotherapy reduced the incidence of pelvic recurrences and prolonged survival related to rectal cancer compared with surgery alone. The postoperative morbidity was significantly higher in the irradiated group.
The accrual of our trial is going well and it is feasible; short term preoperative radiotherapy is safe even in combination with TME.
Although there is no statistically significant survival benefit in the whole series, there is a survival benefit for the subset of patients considered by the surgeon to have undergone a curative operation. We recommend that this form of adjuvant therapy should be offered to all patients with locally advanced rectal cancer who are to undergo radical surgery.
A positive effect on tumor control and survival is achieved with preoperative irradiation with the doses used in this study, with moderate side effects.
Preoperative short-term radiotherapy reduces the risk of pelvic recurrence and can improve survival after curative surgery for rectal carcinoma. An increased risk of intercurrent death may reduce the benefit especially in elderly patients.
In patients with resectable rectal cancer, preoperative radiotherapy significantly improved overall and cancer-specific survival compared with surgery alone. The magnitude of the benefit is relatively small and criteria are needed to identify patients most likely to benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. JAMA. 2000;284:1008-1015
The achieved inclusion level of 52% in a randomized multicenter trial is comparatively high. Because the population in the SRCT was representative, it was concluded that the study results are reliable.
The findings show comparative results between the two study arms in terms of probability of failure and survival.
Preoperative radiotherapy (for example "short" schedule 4 x 500 cGy) may decrease number of local recurrences after abdomino-perineal resections in rectal cancer cases. This procedure effects no technical problems and complications during and after operations.
In 2005 examination of randomized trials provides evidence for the benefit of preoperative chemoradiation in improving local control and probably sphincter preservation in rectal cancer. Randomized trials should be designed to further demonstrate improved sphincter preservation and to increase survival using adjuvant medical treatments.
In a prospective randomized trial designed to test the value of low-dose preoperative irradiation followed by surgery and postoperative irradiation, the authors were unable to observe any benefit to low-dose preoperative therapy in patients with unfavorable stages.
Tumor FDG uptake and cell kinetics are not correlated strongly in rectal carcinoma. Preoperative RT results in an overall loss of tumor cells (tumor reduction) and an increase in Tpot, although proliferation of the viable cell fraction is maintained.
Preoperative chemoradiotherapy for advanced rectal cancer results in a significant preoperative and postoperative immune dysfunction as indicated by depression of lymphocyte subpopulations, monocytes, granulocytes, and proinflammatory cytokine release. These findings are of importance because increased perioperative morbidity and mortality rates have been observed after preoperative chemoradiotherapy.
These results suggested that IBT contributed to the improvement of local control but not survival after radical resection of rectal carcinomas. The application of IBT might be useful in preserving the intestinal continuity for rectal carcinomas.
Radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy after modified radical mastectomy decreases rates of locoregional and systemic relapse and reduces mortality from breast cancer.
The addition of bevacizumab to fluorouracil-based combination chemotherapy results in statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in survival among patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
The addition of cetuximab to capecitabine, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab resulted in significantly shorter progression-free survival and inferior quality of life. Mutation status of the KRAS gene was a predictor of outcome in the cetuximab group. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Combination treatment with bevacizumab and chemotherapy, compared with chemotherapy alone, was associated with an increased risk of arterial thromboembolism but not venous thromboembolism.
Proper randomization is required to generate unbiased comparison groups in controlled trials, yet the reports in these journals usually provided inadequate or unacceptable information on treatment allocation. Additional analyses suggest that nonrandom manipulation of comparison groups and selective reporting of baseline comparisons may have occurred.
Therapy with HAI of FUDR improves the survival of patients with liver metastases over colorectal carcinoma. However, the methods that are used to diminish the toxicity of HAI and efficient systemic chemotherapy, such as a combination of 5-FU and leucovorin, are required to prevent extrahepatic metastases.
In this large single institution experience, pump-related complications were low, the majority of early pump complications were salvaged, and pump complication rates improved as institutional experience accumulated. Longterm durability of pump function was excellent.
HAI oxaliplatin and IV LV5FU2 is feasible, safe, and shows promising activity after systemic chemotherapy failure, allowing surgical resection of initially unresectable CRLM in 18% of patients.
HAI FUDR/DEX plus systemic CPT-11 achieves a response rate of 44% and a median overall survival of 20 months in heavily pre-treated patients with colorectal hepatic metastases all receiving previous oxaliplatin; 18% of patients proceeded to surgical resection or ablation.
Based on this meta-analysis, it appears that hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy confers a modest survival benefit over systemic chemotherapy. Whether this is clinically relevant depends on the quality rather than just the duration of survival.
Regional perfusion chemotherapy can be logistically and technically complicated to deliver. The development of newer systemic agents with superior efficacy in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer will likely diminish the role of regional perfusion therapy in the future.
Tumors of the spine and spinal cord are rare, and they can have grave implications for the patient. The key in the management of spinal cord tumors is their timely diagnosis and treatment to preserve function.
Melanoma-related mortality in Sweden has leveled off since the mid-1980s. During the period 1987-1996, a statistically significant downward trend was observed for females. This trend coincides with increased preventional activities.
People who have had a melanoma can expect to reduce their risk of a further melanoma by reducing recreational sun exposure whatever their age. The same is probably true for a person who has never had a melanoma.
The current results indicated which diverging trends between incidence and mortality may be explained by improved public awareness regarding suspicious pigmented lesions and the earlier detection of these tumors. Continuation of the current preventive strategy and its expansion to include older age groups in the population are warranted.
A significant portion of students developed new nevi over the course of 1 year. Most index nevi remained stable in pattern and structure. Benign dermoscopic changes occurred in 50.0% of index nevi. However, none of the dermoscopically changed nevi revealed any major changes and the overall nevus pattern remained unchanged. The relevance of these changes is uncertain and further follow-up may elucidate their significance.
Sun protection practices among adolescents have continued to decline significantly over time. Future educational programs require an innovative approach to modify adolescent behaviors in relation to sun exposure and sun protection.
Although these studies vary in their study type, location, and biases, their results are consistent. The risk of developing a subsequent skin cancer of a specific type depends on the type of prior NMSC and number of prior skin tumors of that type. Based on these findings, follow-up strategies for patients with BCC and SCC are suggested.
Advances made in the local methods of treatment of primary uveal melanoma have not led to an improvement in survival. Systemic approaches to management of uveal melanoma are warranted.
On the basis of this meta-analysis we conclude that D1 gastrectomy is associated with significant fewer anastomotic leaks, postoperative complication rate, reoperation rate, decreased length of hospital stay and 30-day mortality rate. Finally, the 5-year survival in D1 gastrectomy patients was similar to the D2 cohort.
This retrospective review suggests that concomitant use of an SSRI during treatment does not adversely affect survival. There was no increased toxicity with the use of SSRI concurrent with treatment of newly-diagnosed GBM.
Over time, the relative survival rate of individuals with primary malignant brain tumor has improved and differences in survival are seen by examining the race of the patients.
Despite higher levels of burden, poorer health behaviors, and negative problem solving coping style, modifiable factors account for most of the variance in work limitations for both groups. Efforts to modify these variables should be evaluated.
The results suggest that depression and decreased QOL among low-grade glioma patients is related to shorter survival at long-term follow-up. Decreased QOL may serve as an indicator for poor prognosis in low-grade glioma patients.
This study provides evidence that the pattern of cognitive impairment in early PD may be predicted by depression severity. Therefore, the recognition and treatment of depressive disorder in early PD is important.
Although prognosis is still miserable for HCC, the approach of targeted locoregional immuno-chemotherapy can offer new hope of improved resectability and survival.
Oral polyprenoic acid prevents second primary hepatomas after surgical resection of the original tumor or the percutaneous injection of ethanol.
While the overall survival prognosis was less favorable for African-Americans compared with Caucasians in these trials, other outcomes measured were considerably more similar than those seen in the population at large, suggesting that earlier detection and adjuvant therapy could appreciably improve colon cancer prognosis for African-Americans. Continued investigations into causes of the deficits noted are warranted.
This study shows that folinic acid plus 5-fluorouracil adjuvant chemotherapy is effective in patients with surgically resected Dukes' stage C colon carcinoma.
When all randomized patients were evaluated, no significant clinical benefit was seen with ASI in surgically resected colon cancer patients with stage II or III colon cancer. However, there was an indication that treatment compliance with effective immunization results in disease-free and overall survival benefits.
In the present study, postoperative adjuvant treatment with edrecolomab in patients with resected stage II colon cancer did not improve overall or disease-free survival.
PVI of 5-FU (with or without other cytotoxic drugs) for about 1 week after surgery in patients with colorectal cancer may produce an absolute improvement in 5-year survival of a few percent. Although encouraging, this finding is not statistically secure, and additional evidence from randomized trials involving several thousand more patients is needed.
In this study of patients with similar access to health care resources and treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy, we found similar 5-year DFS and OS in African-Americans and Caucasians with stage II and III colon cancer. The two groups derived similar benefits from adjuvant chemotherapy. Moreover, African-Americans appeared to experience less treatment-related toxicity.
A schedule of 3-week HAI of 5-FU given as adjuvant chemotherapy to patients with Stage III colon carcinoma appeared to contribute to a significant decrease in the frequency of liver metastases and was associated with an improved survival rate.
This individual patient-based meta-analysis demonstrated that oral carmofur significantly improves both OS and DFS in patients with curatively resected colon cancers.
Selected elderly patients with colon cancer can receive the same benefit from fluorouracil-based adjuvant therapy as their younger counterparts, without a significant increase in toxic effects.
Chemotherapy with intraperitoneal 5-FU administered during a short period after surgery was well tolerated but was not sufficient to reduce the risk of death significantly. However, it reduced the risk of recurrence in stage II cancers. These results suggest that it should be associated with systemic chemotherapy to reduce both local and distant recurrences.
Elderly patients with Stage II and Stage III colon carcinoma benefit from 5-FU-based adjuvant therapy without a significant increase in toxicity compared with their younger counterparts. Adjuvant chemotherapy should be presented to elderly patients with high-risk, resected colon carcinoma. The data regarding age cannot be generalized to patients age > 75 years.
There was no difference in disease-free survival or overall survival between the two combinations in any patient subset. Toxicity was greater with the 5-FU+IFN combination because of the flu-like syndrome. These data do not support the use of IFN in combination with 5-FU as systemic adjuvant therapy for patients with locally advanced colon carcinoma.
Some randomized trials using polychemotherapy have resulted in increasing survival rate in adjuvant setting regarding patients with colorectal cancer. New trials have been initiated to further improve these encouraging results.
There was an adverse association between blood transfusion and disease-free survival. Patients given perioperative intraportal chemotherapy but no transfusion had the best disease-free survival. We recommend restricting the use of blood transfusions in patients with colorectal cancer.
Immune responses to vaccination were induced in a majority of monitored patients measured by ELISPOT and proliferation assay. The lack of correlation between the ELISPOT and proliferation assays may reflect the fact that the two methods measure different T-cell responses and highlights the importance of multiple readouts in evaluating a potential cancer vaccine. Responses to both the anti-idiotype and the CD55 antigen were measurable, adding support to the use of CD55 as a target in cancer treatment.
Adjuvant perioperative chemotherapy with fluorouracil, mitomycin and Heparin as given in this study is associated with a significant mild drop in hemoglobin and leucocytes during the first 10 postoperative days. If drug dose increases are planned in future trials the addition of hematopoietic growth factors might be considered.
There is growing evidence that the prognosis of certain stage II patients with unfavorable prognostic factors can be improved by adjuvant chemotherapy, and increasingly refined tools are now available to define those most likely to benefit. Referral of stage II patients for individual assessment is strongly recommended.
In 2001, the majority of patients with colorectal cancer still received inadequate lymph node evaluation. The association of demographic variables, particularly patient age and geographic location, with adequate lymph node evaluation indicates that local surgical and pathology practice patterns may affect adequacy of lymph node evaluation.
Patients whose tumors exhibited MSI-H had a favorable prognosis, whereas those with 8p allelic imbalance had a poor prognosis; both alterations served as independent prognostic factors. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an association between 8p allelic imbalance and survival in patients with colorectal cancer.
Seven characteristics were identified as risk factors for exfoliation of cancer cells into the peritoneal cavity in patients with colorectal cancer. These findings may be helpful for the choice of laparoscopic surgery in this era of increasing port-site metastases after laparoscopic procedure. The results of peritoneal lavage cytology at the end of surgery were correlated with the long-term postoperative outcome of colorectal cancer. Thus, meticulous follow-up and possibly adjuvant chemotherapy may be beneficial for patients with free cancer cells in lavage fluid, even after curative surgery.
Rofecoxib therapy was associated with an increased frequency of adverse cardiovascular events among patients with a median study treatment of 7.4 months' duration. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN98278138 [controlled-trials.com].).
The AJCC sixth edition system for colon cancer stratifies survival more distinctly than the fifth edition system by providing more substages. The association of stage IIIa colon cancer with statistically significantly better survival than stage IIb in the new system may reflect current clinical practice, in which stage III patients receive chemotherapy but stage II patients generally do not.
The TM/HBPC intervention improved most HR-QoL measures among terminally ill patients and satisfaction among non-terminally ill patients. It improved caregiver HR-QoL, satisfaction with care, and caregiver burden and reduced hospital readmissions at 6 months, but it did not substitute for other forms of care. The higher costs of TM/HBPC should be weighed against these benefits.
In England and Wales home deaths have been decreasing. The projections underline the urgent need for planning care to accommodate a large increase of ageing and deaths. Either inpatient facilities must increase substantially, or many more people will need community end of life care from 2012 onwards.
Home care is the most common preference, with inpatient hospice care as second preference in advanced illness. Meeting these preferences could be important outcomes for services. Study designs in this area need to be improved.
Addition of daunomycin to standard COMP therapy did not improve outcome in pediatric disseminated NLB NHL. Patients with LC disease had a significantly reduced long-term EFS, but were retrieved at a higher rate than patients with SNCC disease, resulting in equivalent long-term survival.
Overall results were unsatisfactory compared to results reported from developed countries. Late diagnosis and the consequently high proportion of cases of advanced disease at diagnosis, the large number of patients failing to complete the treatment, and the poor quality of local control (in RMS) adversely influence outcome.
The outcome of patients with CPDN is favorable with 100% survival rate and no recurrences. For stage I patients, treatment with complete tumor resection appears to be as efficacious as nephrectomy plus chemotherapy. Stage II patients also have excellent outcome when treated with tumor resection and postoperative vincristine and dactinomycin.
The inclusion of data from nonrandomized patients yielded estimates of DOX treatment effects for Stage III/FH WT that were stronger, albeit more susceptible to bias, than reported previously. Despite a lower reported risk of CHF, conclusive evidence that frontline therapy with DOX definitively improves survival remains elusive.
Although it is difficult to completely control for the effects of selection bias on outcome in this highly selected cohort of patients, data from the current study suggest that systemic chemotherapy has minimal, if any, long-term impact on the outcome of patients undergoing pulmonary resection for metastatic STS of the extremity.
OS on CCG 2891 was superior to CCG 213 but equivalent between ST and IT arms due to better salvage rates post-relapse in ST patients. Overall survival for childhood AML in the absence of BMT in CR1 is influenced by duration of CR1 and by race.
In patients without the usual cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, hypertension, obesity, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus) the risk of serious cardiac lesions after conventionally fractionated irradiation of the mediastinum with an intermediate total dose between 30 and 40 Gy is low. Also the cardiac risk of the combination of this irradiation with Ct including adriamycin with a total dose between 200 and 300 mg/m2 seems low but further long-term observation is necessary.
Chest wall invasion is an adverse prognostic factor among clinical Stage I-II Hodgkin's lymphoma patients treated with combined modality therapy, although we did not find a worse outcome for patients with lung invasion. Efforts to reduce treatment intensity in these patients should be undertaken with caution, recognizing their increased risk of local relapse.
Our early results suggest that the use of multimodality therapy including chemotherapy with radiation in unresectable osteosarcoma may be beneficial.
Patients with leukemic blast cells in their cerebrospinal fluid are at increased risk for central nervous system relapse when cranial irradiation is delayed. Such patients require intensified central nervous system treatment early in the course of therapy.
The current data raise the possibility that children with Wilms tumor and CT-only pulmonary nodules who receive whole lung irradiation have fewer pulmonary relapses, but a greater number of deaths due to treatment toxicity. The role of whole lung irradiation in the treatment of this group of patients cannot be definitively determined based on the present data. Prolonged follow-up of this group of patients is necessary to accurately estimate the frequency of late, treatment-related mortality.
Young adults with ALL treated on CCG protocols have a 6-year EFS of approximately 60%. This is similar to the EFS for patients 10-15+ years of age at diagnosis treated on the same protocols and better than EFS results reported from most adult trials. Young adults with AML had a slightly inferior outcome compared with younger children.
Local control does not seem to be compromised by renal conservation therapy. Local control is excellent in sites treated with radiation therapy in combination with three drug chemotherapy.
In terms of histologic response to primary chemotherapy, MFH has a lower chemosensitivity than osteosarcoma. Nevertheless, the two tumors have similar prognoses when treated with chemotherapy regimens based on MTX, CDP, ADM and IFO.
No late cardiac damage was demonstrated in childhood ALL survivors after induction treatment including a cumulative dose of 100 mg/m(2) DNR, compared to survivors who received the same treatment but without DNR. DNR 100 mg/m(2) given in 4 doses of 25 mg/m(2)/week appears to be a safe dose in induction treatment of ALL.
The use of preoperative treatment can facilitate subsequent surgical resection in selected patients with inoperable Wilms tumors. Although these very large tumors--judged unable to be resected--have a somewhat worse prognosis, nephrectomy was completed in 93% of patients after preoperative treatment. However, preoperative treatment will lead to less accurate surgical and pathologic staging, and undertreatment should be avoided in these high-risk patients.
Close monitoring of kinetics of cytoreduction can rapidly distinguish between similar therapies, and the surrogate end-point may reduce the need for the long follow-up periods that may still be required to demonstrate differences in EFS. Continuous infusion of daunorubicin had less cardiotoxicity with faster antileukemic activity than bolus infusion. The MSK-NY-II protocol with a 86% 4-year EFS rate and a 95% DFS rate was a promising new regimen for the treatment of average-risk and high-risk ALL.
The adverse prognostic implications of lymphomatous ALL can be minimized by the NY and BFM regimens. Cranial irradiation resulted in better CNS disease control when added to the LSA2-L2 regimen, but did not improve the overall disease free survival. With improved systemic chemotherapy, there was no excess of lymph node, testicular, or other local recurrence without prophylactic irradiation to sites of initial bulk disease or to the testes.
Because antiemetic interventions are similarly effective and act independently, the safest or least expensive should be used first. Prophylaxis is rarely warranted in low-risk patients, moderate-risk patients may benefit from a single intervention, and multiple interventions should be reserved for high-risk patients.
For many procedures, the observed associations between hospital volume and operative mortality are largely mediated by surgeon volume. Patients can often improve their chances of survival substantially, even at high-volume hospitals, by selecting surgeons who perform the operations frequently.
Peptic ulcer is a rare complication of corticosteroid therapy that should not be considered a contraindication when steroid therapy is indicated.
This critical appraisal of meta-analyses published in the general surgery literature demonstrates frequent methodologic flaws. The quality of these reports limits the validity of the findings and the inferences that can be made about the primary studies reviewed. To improve the quality of future meta-analyses, we recommend following guidelines for the optimal conduct and reporting of meta-analyses in general surgery.
Perioperative intravenous lidocaine not only improved gastrointestinal motility but also shortened length of hospital stay significantly. Anti-inflammatory activity modulating the surgery-induced stress response may be one potential mechanism. Systemic lidocaine may thus provide a convenient and inexpensive approach to improve outcome for patients not suitable for epidural anesthesia.
Epidural local anaesthetics should be included in a multi-modal rehabilitation programme after major surgical procedures in order to facilitate oral nutrition, improve recovery and reduce morbidity.
Reduction of stress in surgical patients has improved outcome. The use of stress reduction techniques will continue to expand and contribute to the improvement of future surgical care.
There was no significant difference between the Whipple procedure and PPPD for the treatment of pancreatic head cancer in terms of operating time, blood loss, operative mortality and long-term survival. But delayed gastric emptying was more frequently encountered in PPPD than in the Whipple procedure.
The SW and PPPD operations were associated with comparable operation time, blood loss, hospital stay, mortality, morbidity, and incidence of DGE. The overall long-term and disease-free survival was comparable in both groups. Both surgical procedures are equally effective for the treatment of pancreatic and periampullary carcinoma.
The morbidity and mortality risks were comparable between total pancreatectomy and a Whipple's procedure and between biliary and a double bypass. Preoperative biliary drainage had no impact on the risks and may be abandoned. High age is a relative and a low Karnofsky's index an absolute contraindication for radical surgery. Nonsurgical palliation of jaundice should be considered according to the presence of independent risk factors.
The morbidity and mortality of pancreaticoduodenectomy for periampullary cancer although slightly greater for patients over the age of 70 are acceptable. The factors that may influence the mortality are an albumin concentration of less then 30 g/L and the amount of blood lost during operation. The duct to mucosa anastomosis is a safe procedure, which has a lower leak rate and less need for total parenteral nutrition than pancreaticojejunostomy.
The addition of an extended lymphadenectomy and retroperitoneal soft-tissue clearance to a pancreatoduodenal resection does not significantly increase morbidity and mortality rates. Although the overall survival rate does not differ in the two groups, there appears to be a trend toward longer survival in node positive patients treated with an extended rather than a standard lymphadenectomy.
The KW and PP-KW procedures did not significantly influence the hazard of death in the presence of tumour staging, demonstrating that ESPAC-1 surgeons showed good judgement in their choice of operation. Post-operative complications did not adversely affect the survival benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.
This study has shown that it is feasible to develop a checklist that can be used to assess the methodological quality not only of randomised controlled trials but also non-randomised studies. It has also shown that it is possible to produce a checklist that provides a profile of the paper, alerting reviewers to its particular methodological strengths and weaknesses. Further work is required to improve the checklist and the training of raters in the assessment of external validity.
Despite the continuing decrease in cancer death rates and stabilization of cancer incidence rates, the overall growth and aging of the U.S. population can be expected to increase the burden of cancer in our nation.
Our data show a high success of surgical palliation in pancreatic cancer in centers with a high frequency of pancreatic surgery. Patients that could not be cured (R1/R2), although undergoing extensive procedures, had better survival rates than patients treated with bypass surgery. Perioperative mortality rate was comparatively low. This justifies aggressive surgical management of pancreatic carcinoma.
Pancreaticoduodenectomy can be performed with a similar perioperative morbidity and mortality and only a minimal increase in hospital stay when compared with traditional surgical palliation. Pancreaticoduodenectomy with postoperative chemotherapy and radiation therapy is associated with improved long-term survival when compared with patients treated with surgical bypass. These data support the role of palliative pancreaticoduodenectomy in patients with pancreatic carcinoma and with local residual disease.
PPPD was as successful as classic PD in the treatment of ductal adenocarcinoma and periampullary cancer of the pancreas. Long-term survival was not influenced by the type of resection.
Resection margin-positive pancreatic tumors represent a biologically more aggressive cancer; these patients benefit from resection and adjuvant chemotherapy but not chemoradiation. The magnitude of benefit for chemotherapy treatment is reduced for patients with R1 margins versus those with R0 margins. Patients with R1 tumors should be included in future trials of adjuvant treatments and randomization and analysis should be stratified by this significant prognostic factor.
Repeated lateral pull tests and patellar tilt tests had fair intrarater and poor interrater reliability. Our results suggest that care must be taken in placing too much emphasis on these tests when making clinical decisions.
Isotopic test results of GE are frequently abnormal after either type of pancreatoduodenectomy, but symptoms are uncommon. The retained pylorus is competent to prevent enterogastric reflux and does not itself impair emptying of the stomach.
Single-agent TLC D-99 produces less cardiotoxicity than doxorubicin, while providing comparable antitumor activity.
Results of the LITE pilot study should provide important clinical and mechanistic insights on the promising role of liposomal anthracyclines in patients with breast cancer and indication to anthracycline chemotherapy (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier 
Epirubicin was as effective as doxorubicin in terms of patients' responses to therapy. There was no difference in cardiotoxicity between the two treatment arms. However, in this study, the mortality due to neutropenic sepsis was significantly higher among patients treated with epirubicin.
In first-line therapy for MBC, PLD provides comparable efficacy to doxorubicin, with significantly reduced cardiotoxicity, myelosuppression, vomiting and alopecia.
The DVd regimen demonstrated similar efficacy with less toxicity and supportive care compared with VAd, which should improve clinical utility and optimize the opportunity for transplantation.
Cardiotoxicity was low in our study. For the short term, cardiotoxicity seems to be only a minor problem in patients treated with epirubicin as applied in this cohort.
A rapidly growing number of persons, including an alarming fraction of the 150 000 or more adults in the United States who have survived childhood cancer, will have substantial morbidity and mortality because of anthracycline-related cardiac disease. The development of effective protection against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity will probably have a significant effect on the overall survival of these patients.
AT is devoid of excessive cardiac risk among metastatic breast carcinoma patients, when the maximum planned cumulative dose of doxorubicin does not exceed 360 mg/m(2).
This blinded independent review and analysis of updated data confirmed the advantage for AT over FAC with regard to TTP and OS in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
The results of this multi-institutional study in patients with metastatic breast cancer suggest that the combination of doxorubicin and paclitaxel is well tolerated with relatively low rates of cardiac toxicity if the total dose of doxorubicin is held to <or=360 mg/m(2). However, the CR rates achieved with this combination are probably more modest than initial single institution studies might suggest.
DOC showed marginally better activity but did not improve TTP or other endpoints over VIN in this poor risk population.
Both vinorelbine/trastuzumab and taxane/trastuzumab treatments were active as first-line therapy for HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer and had comparable rates of efficacy and tolerability. The toxicities observed were the result of recognized side effects associated with each of the chemotherapy agents and schedules. These data can inform treatment decision making in this clinical setting.
The gemcitabine-based treatments had comparable activity and tolerability. Similar survival characteristics and different toxicity profiles suggested that gemcitabine-platinum may be evaluated further in patients after anthracycline failure.
The present consensus manuscript updates evidence-based recommendations for state-of-the-art treatment of MBC depending on disease-associated and biological variables.
Use of paclitaxel in weekly regimen give overall survival advantages compared with the standard every three weeks regimen. The observed survival benefit does not seem to stem from an increased potency of the drug with weekly regimens. The use of weekly paclitaxel regimens is therefore recommended for the treatment of locally advanced/metastatic breast cancer.
The paclitaxel-carboplatin-etoposide combination produced a superior overall response rate and time to progression in patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer compared with paclitaxel plus topotecan. The platinum compounds continue to be a necessary component of the initial therapy for these patients.
The combination regimens EP and CAV can be considered equivalently effective induction therapies in extensive SCLC, and these two regimens are, to some degree, crossresistant. Alternating therapy provides no therapeutic advantage compared with the use of either of these regimens alone and should not be considered as standard treatment in this clinical setting.
These interim results show that this schedule of oral etoposide is inferior to intravenous chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced SCLC and should not be used as first-line treatment of this disease.
The addition of cisplatin to a CDE regimen is toxic to patients with extensive SCLC and does not improve overall survival. The PCDE combination must be avoided for patients with extensive SCLC; CDE or cisplatin-etoposide combinations remain standard chemotherapy for these patients. The PCDE combination associated with granulocyte-colony stimulating factors could only be assessed in patients with good prognoses.
Single-agent carboplatin is a feasible treatment in patients with poor prognosis SCLC and produces response rates, relief of tumor-related symptoms, and survival similar to what is seen in patients who receive CAV chemotherapy. The lower risk of life-threatening sepsis and less need for hospitalization or intravenous antibiotic courses is advantageous in this susceptible patient population.
According to the results of this Phase II randomized trial, the PEG regimen produced a higher complete response rate but more toxicity compared with the PG regimen in patients with extensive-stage or poor-prognosis, limited-stage small cell lung carcinoma.
The carboplatin containing regimen (MVC) has a significant better toxicity profile than the cisplatin containing (MVP) regimen as proven both by the EORTC questionnaires and by the WHO toxicity data reported by physicians. No significant differences in terms of response rate, time to progression and overall survival were observed between the two regimen. The two chemotherapy regimen showed a similar effectiveness in symptom palliation when evaluated with C30 addendum of EORTC QOL questionnaire. With the Spitzer's questionnaires a trend towards an improved quality of life index was observed during treatment with the carboplatin combination in comparison to the cisplatin combination. This difference, however, was not observed when the global quality of life was evaluated with the EORTC patients compiled questionnaires. A carboplatin containing regimen with better toxicity profile and a similar potentiality for symptoms control offers an option in comparison to similar cisplatin containing combinations in the palliative treatment of advanced NSCLC.
These results do not support the concern that antioxidants might protect cancer cells from the free radical damage induced by chemotherapy. Larger trials are needed to demonstrate whether high-dose multiple antioxidants in conjunction with chemotherapy increase the response rates and/or survival time in advanced lung cancer.
Combination of T and DDP is active in ED SCLC. Toxicity and median survival were comparable in both arms. Three days treatment seems to be similar to the 5 days regime.
Paclitaxel and cisplatin combined with vinorelbine or gemcitabine as front-line therapy in brain metastases seem to achieve responses similar to those for extracranial disease, suggesting a meaningful role in this setting.
Both the response rate and survival data in this retrospective study suggest a high degree of activity of this combination chemotherapy in patients with brain metastases from NSCLC.
By applying American Joint Committee on Cancer staging to only the primary site, the thoracic Stage I patients in our study with solitary brain metastases had a more favorable outcome than would be expected and was comparable to Stage I NSCLC without brain metastases. Aggressive treatment to the lung may be justified for newly diagnosed thoracic Stage I NSCLC patients with a solitary brain metastasis, but not for locally advanced NSCLC patients with a solitary brain metastasis.
Ofatumumab is a second-generation anti-CD20 antibody that has been demonstrated to be safe and efficacious in patients with lymphoproliferative and autoimmune disorders. Ofatumumab is fully human, attaches to a newly identified epitope and shows lower off-rates and improved complement-dependent cytotoxicity. Initial data present ofatumumab as an attractive agent with lower rates of infusion-related events than rituximab. Ongoing Phase III trials in patients with follicular lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia and rheumatoid arthritis are ongoing, and Phase II trials in patients with aggressive lymphoma and multiple sclerosis are also under development.
The intravenous schedule of alemtuzumab employed in the trial was relatively poorly tolerated in this community-based trial. The relatively low complete response rates after treatment with the combination of fludarabine and rituximab and after the completion of treatment suggest that these abbreviated courses may compromise efficacy. The generalized use of alemtuzumab as consolidation therapy cannot yet be recommended for community practice. However, optimization of the route of administration, duration of treatment, and interval after completion of induction therapy may improve efficacy, and further investigation is ongoing.
In this clinical trial, the PCR regimen was well tolerated by older patients and individuals with CrCl <or= 70. The efficacy of PCR was not significantly affected by age or renal function. These findings suggest PCR may be a good therapeutic option for older patients and those with modestly decreased renal function.
The results of this retrospective comparison of patients with recurrent and refractory CLL indicated a higher complete remission rate and the longest estimated survival for patients who were treated with FCR, providing the basis for randomized clinical trials of this regimen.
HPN may benefit a limited percentage of patients who may survive longer than the time allowed by a condition of starvation and depletion. Provided that these patients survive longer than 3 months, there is some evidence that QoL remains stable for some months and acceptable for the patients.
In this cohort of hospitalized patients with advanced dementia, risk of receiving a new feeding tube is high, associated with African American ethnicity, and prior residence in a nursing home, and has no measurable influence on survival. With or without a feeding tube, these patients have a 50% six-month median mortality.
Although clinicians consistently overestimate survival, their predictions are highly correlated with actual survival; the predictions have discriminatory ability even if they are miscalibrated. Clinicians caring for patients with terminal cancer need to be aware of their tendency to overestimate survival, as it may affect patients' prospects for achieving a good death. Accurate prognostication models incorporating clinical prediction of survival are needed.
These definitive results confirmed that TAM significantly improves the post-recurrence DFS of patients after local treatment for ILRR. This beneficial effect does not translate into a detectable OS advantage.
Our findings continue to indicate that lumpectomy followed by breast irradiation is appropriate therapy for women with either negative or positive axillary nodes and breast tumors 4 cm or less in diameter.
Administering radiotherapy after quadrantectomy reduces the risk of local recurrence in women with small cancers of the breast, but radiotherapy may not be necessary in elderly women.
Local recurrences and distant metastases are partially independent events that occur at different times; several predicting factors also differ. However, women with local recurrences have increased risk of distant metastases. In particular, women 35 years old or younger at first diagnosis who had initial peritumoral lymphatic invasion and local recurrence within 2 years are at high risk for distant spread. For recurrence in cases with an extensive intraductal component or where initial local surgery was possibly inadequate, women are at lower risk.
Radical vaginal trachelectomy with pelvic lymphadenectomy permits preservation of fertility in selected patients. To date, with more than 150 cases reported in the literature, recurrence rates are comparable to those seen with radical hysterectomy.
Patients with stage IA2 carcinoma of the cervix who have 3 to 5 mm of invasion present on conization with no invasion in the hysterectomy specimen are at very low risk for lymph node metastases, recurrences, or death caused by cancer.
In young patients affected by early invasive cervical carcinoma, radical trachelectomy does not appear to increase the rate of recurrence. It carries a relative risk of infertility and late miscarriage but makes it possible for some patients to become pregnant and give birth to normal newborns. Thus, it seems reasonable to offer this procedure in selected cases, provided that each patient is fully informed and the surgeon properly trained.
Robotic trachelectomy is equally reproducible and accurate as the vaginal trachelectomy in terms of the remaining cervical length and results in a significantly more precise placement of the cerclage.
It appears many women with early-stage cervical cancer can be treated less radically than has been done in the past. Large prospective trials are underway to further define candidates for less-radical surgery.
The rate of parametrial involvement in women with early stage cervical cancer with favorable pathologic characteristics is low. Should the results of ongoing studies be favorable, conservative surgery could become the standard of care for certain women with early stage cervical cancer.
For selected women with early-stage cervical cancer, radical vaginal trachelectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy are fertility-sparing options, with a low incidence of recurrence and acceptable cumulative conception rates. Complications are few, although there is a high premature labour and miscarriage rate among pregnant women.
Bowel dysfunction is common after radical hysterectomy. Many women exhibit manometric and subjective changes compatible with fecal incontinence.
Acknowledging small sample size and retrospective study, positive parametrial involvement in stage IA and IB1 cervical cancer is infrequent. There is a significant association with lymph node status. Thus, there may be a role for less radical surgery combined with pelvic lymphadenectomy in this patient population.
Parametrial spread is a strong predictor of recurrence and decreased survival. Parametrial invasion is rare in patients with small tumors, no LVSI, and negative pelvic nodes (no poor prognostic factors). Further study is warranted to determine the feasibility of omitting parametrectomy in these low-risk patients.
A critical pathway incorporating rapid diet advancement for patients undergoing primary cytoreductive surgery with rectosigmoid colectomy for ovarian and primary peritoneal cancers is feasible, safe, and associated with a significant reduction in length of hospital stay and hospital-related costs.
The concept of fast-track multimodal rehabilitation appears to be beneficial in patients operated for ovarian malignancy, as hospital stay and medical morbidity are reduced.
On the basis of these findings, the policy of EOF should be used after a complex gynecologic oncologic laparotomy.
Early postoperative oral intake results in a decreased length of hospitalization and is well tolerated when compared with traditional dietary management in patients undergoing abdominal surgery on a university gynecologic oncology service.
Current guidelines and protocols of nutritional management of ovarian cancer seem to be based on expert opinion. There is need for extensive collaborative evidence for nutritional management decisions made in the treatment of patients. Prospective cohort studies could help evaluate the impact of changes in nutritional status on health/nutritional outcomes, disease recurrence, quality of life, and survival. These would form a basis for well-designed, targeted, randomized controlled trials with specific and controlled nutrients/counseling aimed at preventing rather than treating nutritional complications.
Significantly more blood loss, morbidity, and mortality occurred in patients with abnormal preoperative prealbumin. This was especially true in patients with a prealbumin <10 mg/dl. With these significantly increased risks, patients with extremely poor nutritional status (prealbumin <10 mg/dl) may be better served by neoadjuvant chemotherapy with interval cytoreductive surgery if nutrition improves.
Improvement in nutritional status is associated with better survival. Consequently, our findings lend support to the importance of aggressive nutritional intervention in improving patient outcomes in oncology.
The PG-SGA is significantly associated with subjective and objective parameters and is a widely recognized, clinically relevant method of evaluating nutritional status. It therefore seems most appropriate for identifying malnourishment in gynecologic cancer patients.
Malnutrition, low quality of life scores and being diagnosed with advanced ovarian cancer are the major determinants of prolonged LOS amongst gynecological cancer patients. Interventions addressing malnutrition and poor QOL may decrease LOS in gynecological cancer patients.
The findings suggest that a more careful evaluation should be employed to identify preoperative nutritional status in women with gynecologic or breast cancer.
The present study bodes well for future management of a national screening programme, provided that follow-up results reflect adequate proof of a net benefit. It is highly questionable whether the addition of once-only FOBT to FS will contribute to this effect.
Poor yield of polyps at follow-up, slow growth of in situ polyps, and no clinical CRC among screenees after 10 years provides support to infrequent or no colonoscopic follow-up after initial polypectomy in individuals with otherwise average risk of CRC.
A reduction in incidence of colorectal cancer with flexible sigmoidoscopy screening could not be shown after 7 years' follow-up. Mortality from colorectal cancer was not significantly reduced in the screening group but seemed to be lower for attenders, with a reduction of 59% for any location of colorectal cancer and 76% for rectosigmoidal cancer in per protocol analysis, an analysis prone to selection bias.
The persistent reduction in mortality from CRC in a biennial screening program with Hemoccult-II, and a reduction in RR to less than 0.70 in those adhering to the programme, support attempts to introduce larger scale population screening programmes. The smaller effect on mortality from CRC in the rectum and sigmoid colon suggests evaluation by additional flexible sigmoidoscopy with longer intervals.
Complications occurred in 0.3 percent of the endoscopies, and 5 percent of patients had to undergo laparotomy again. No mortality occurred. If mortality attributable to colorectal cancer will decrease because of screening, we find the complication rate is acceptable.
The study demonstrated that the use of feedback information in an endoscopy screening unit may be useful in improving standards, including the performance of endoscopists. It is possible that the introduction of similar feedback systems in routine endoscopy laboratories may in the long run improve the reputation of gastrointestinal endoscopy.
The present study has demonstrated a possible health certificate effect of flexible sigmoidoscopy screening and screening outcome on lifestyle. Although modest, these findings indicate a potential need for patient education in screening programs.
Severe worry in connection with the invitation was reported by a minority of the invited participants, more women than men. The worry increased among those who had a positive test but decreased after the examination. One year after the work-up most appreciated the study.
The use of either annual or biennial fecal occult-blood testing significantly reduces the incidence of colorectal cancer.
The receipt of a screening test does not cause sustained anxiety and the existence of psychiatric morbidity is not a factor affecting a person's decision to accept or refuse a screening test for colorectal cancer.
There was investigation related morbidity but no mortality and little to support overdiagnosis bias. The group returning falsely negative tests had a better outcome compared with the whole control group. There is a negative side to any screening programme but mortality reduction in this and other trials suggests that a national programme of colorectal cancer screening should be given consideration.
Approximately 70% of individuals who undergo screening sigmoidoscopy are satisfied and find the procedure more comfortable than expected, whereas only 15% to 25% find the procedure unpleasant. Physicians should not project discomfort onto patients as a reason for not requesting screening sigmoidoscopy.
Although the reduction in colorectal cancer mortality was sustained, further follow up of this population is required to determine whether a significant reduction in the incidence of colorectal cancer will be achieved.
Our findings, together with the results of other trials, suggest that biennial screening by FOBTs can reduce CRC mortality regardless of the quality of the health system and support attempts to introduce large-scale screening programs into the general population.
The prevalence of CRC in Beijing is one of the highest in China. Individuals at high risk for CRC or those over 50 years of age should be considered as primary candidates for screening. SFOBT screening is a cost-effective and reliable method for early detection of CRC.
There was no significant difference in adenoma prevalence between the group after the screening program and the controls after the usual care. There was a trend toward more high-risk adenomas in the control group. This suggests a very limited effect of one-time screening sigmoidoscopy with surveillance colonoscopy on the prevalence of adenomas, but a preventive effect on the development of high-risk adenomas consistent with the reported effect on cancer prevention.
Age greater than 60 yr, a history of at least 10 pack-years of smoking, and a family history of colorectal cancer increased the risk of finding significant proximal polyps in patients without distal pathology.
We detected advanced neoplasia at a significantly higher rate in men than in women, which may warrant refinement of the screening recommendations for colorectal cancer.
Screening by sigmoidoscopy can reduce mortality from cancer of the rectum and distal colon. A screening once every 10 years may be nearly as efficacious as more frequent screening.
Epidural analgesia was associated with an increase in any, but not serious, postoperative complications and length of stay after abdominal hysterectomy. Randomised controlled trials are needed to examine the effect of epidural analgesia on surgical adverse events, especially as the present data do not support a quality of life benefit with epidural analgesia.
Time to first defecation, hospital stay, and morbidity may be reduced after colonic resection with fast-track multimodal rehabilitation.
The study questions the previously proposed advantages of shortened hospitalization and convalescence after LAVH compared with abdominal hysterectomy. Further studies with active rehabilitation are needed to demonstrate real differences between laparoscopic and open hysterectomy.
We have developed a clinical pathway based on patient education, meticulous minimally invasive operation, cryoanalgesia, and quick resumption of physical activity. Our preliminary experience with this approach has shown minimal morbidity, rapid restoration to preoperative status, and, for most patients, a 1-day hospital stay after major lung resection.
In the very high-risk population studied, effective anti-H. pylori treatment and dietary supplementation with antioxidant micronutrients may interfere with the precancerous process, mostly by increasing the rate of regression of cancer precursor lesions, and may be an effective strategy to prevent gastric carcinoma.
Preneoplastic gastric lesions regress at a rate equal to the square of time in patients rendered free of H pylori infection. Our findings suggest that patients with preneoplastic gastric lesions should be treated and cured of their H pylori infection.
We conclude that gastric atrophy improves significantly after long term control of H. pylori infection. This effect can be demonstrated both by conventional histological grading and by morphometry.
At 1 year, H. pylori eradication is beneficial in preventing progression of pathologic changes of the gastric mucosa.
We found that the incidence of gastric cancer development at the population level was similar between participants receiving H pylori eradication treatment and those receiving placebo during a period of 7.5 years in a high-risk region of China. In the subgroup of H pylori carriers without precancerous lesions, eradication of H pylori significantly decreased the development of gastric cancer. Further studies to investigate the role of H pylori eradication in participants with precancerous lesions are warranted.
In this prospective trial, eradication of H pylori after endoscopic resection of gastric tumors did not significantly reduce the incidence of metachronous gastric carcinoma. ClinicalTrials.gov Number: 
Our results suggest that an eradication rate of > 85% can be achieved with 14-day clarithromycin, metronidazole, and amoxicillin and 10-day clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and omeprazole regimens in Pasto, Colombia. The regimens containing clarithromycin, metronidazole, and amoxicillin appear to be superior to the clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and omeprazole regimen for compliant participants and those with atrophic gastritis. Our findings provide treatment options for a population in a developing country with a high prevalence of H. pylori infections and antibiotic resistance.
There were significant reductions in total dyspepsia-related health care costs. The savings made were greater than the initial cost of H pylori screening and treatment.
H pylori infection is associated with a slightly increased prevalence of heartburn but not reflux. Treatment to eradicate H pylori has no net benefit in patients with heartburn or gastro-oesophageal reflux.
In this prospective cohort study, all gastric malignancies, including adenocarcinoma and lymphoma, developed in H. pylori-infected patients. The finding implies that H. pylori is a necessary cause of most gastric malignancies. Follow-up for H. pylori-infected patients who have intestinal metaplasia is indicated.
The present study shows a close relationship between H. pylori infection and IM, and between IM and the development of gastric cancer. In addition, our finding suggests that chronic H. pylori infection looks like an important risk factor for the development of gastric cancer in Korea, where the prevalence of H. pylori remains high. This study indicates that to prevent gastric cancer H. pylori eradication is best performed before the development of IM.
Community screening and eradication of H pylori is feasible in the general population and led to significant reductions in the number of people who consulted for dyspepsia and had symptoms two years after treatment. These benefits have to be balanced against the costs of eradication treatment, so a targeted eradication strategy in dyspeptic patients may be preferable.
Modelling suggests that population H. pylori screening and treatment are likely to be cost-effective and could be the first cost-neutral screening programme. This provides a further mandate for clinical trials to evaluate the efficacy of population H. pylori screening and treatment in preventing mortality from gastric cancer and peptic ulcer disease.
The grade of gastric atrophy was closely related to the development of gastric cancer after receiving H. pylori eradication therapy. Thus, eradication of H. pylori before the significant expansion of atrophy is most beneficial to prevent gastric cancer.
Helicobacter pylori-eradicated patients had a reduced incidence of gastric cancer compared with H. pylori-persistent patients, particularly the intestinal type, suggesting that H. pylori is strongly associated with intestinal-type gastric cancer.
Gastric cancer develops in persons infected with H. pylori but not in uninfected persons. Those with histologic findings of severe gastric atrophy, corpus-predominant gastritis, or intestinal metaplasia are at increased risk. Persons with H. pylori infection and nonulcer dyspepsia, gastric ulcers, or gastric hyperplastic polyps are also at risk, but those with duodenal ulcers are not.
Dyspepsia was modestly reduced after the screening and treatment procedure, and the result was not sufficiently extensive to have an effect on the use of health care or to improve quality of life.
H pylori infection may be an important cause of gastric cancer; between 35% and 55% of all cases may be associated with such an infection.
These results suggest that 5.9 is the best estimate of the relative risk of non-cardia cancer associated with H pylori infection and that H pylori does not increase the risk of cardia cancer. They also support the idea that when H pylori status is assessed close to cancer diagnosis, the magnitude of the non-cardia association may be underestimated.
Despite the overall decline in noncardia gastric adenocarcinoma, the incidence of local stage disease has remained stable in most ages and even increased in old ages. Unfortunately, there has been no significant improvement in survival during the past 20 yr. Moreover, there remain considerable regional as well as racial variations in mortality.
Population-based eradication of H pylori infection has led to a significant reduction in gastric atrophy at the expense of increased oesophagitis. The ultimate benefit in reducing gastric cancer incidence and its mortality should be validated by a further long-term follow-up.
Infection with H. pylori is strongly associated with an increased risk of gastric carcinoma. However, most persons infected with H. pylori will never have gastric carcinoma. Therefore, other factors that increase the risk of gastric carcinoma among persons infected with H. pylori need to be identified.
Infection with H. pylori is associated with an increased risk of gastric adenocarcinoma and may be a cofactor in the pathogenesis of this malignant condition.
Primary care dyspeptic patients without alarm symptoms rarely have serious underlying conditions at endoscopy. The costs associated with diagnosing an occult malignancy are large, but an age cut-off of 50 years for early endoscopy provides the best assurance that an occult malignancy will not be missed.
Infection with H. pylori may reduce the risk of esophageal adenocarcinoma, but it is unlikely to do so by atrophy-reduced acidity. Gastric atrophy and infection with CagA-positive strains of H. pylori may increase the risk for esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma.
These data provide limited, moderate quality evidence that searching for and eradicating H pylori reduces the incidence of gastric cancer in healthy asymptomatic infected Asian individuals, but these data cannot necessarily be extrapolated to other populations.
Despite only seeing four a priori defined responders in this pilot study testing dl-alpha tocopheryl acetate plus pentoxifylline in patients suffering complications of pelvic radiotherapy, changes in LENT SOMA scores suggest beneficial effects. However, we are not convinced that these effects are real, since no significant changes in symptoms and functional status were recorded by detailed prospective patient self-assessments.
Sexual dysfunction is common following radical pelvic surgery and tends to remain a chronic problem. As well as organic causes there is a strong psychogenic element brought about by loss of fertility, disfigurement, depression and anxiety about one's desirability as a sexual partner. The presence of a stable relationship before the diagnosis of cancer helps women cope better, and young single women are a very vulnerable group. Patients want more information on sexual matters and the provision of sexual counselling may improve outcome in the future.
If investigators wish to use a screening instrument as a case detector, the shorter GHQ is remarkably robust and works as well as the longer instrument. The latter should only be preferred if there is an interest in the scaled scores provided in addition to the total score.
It is feasible to include sexual activity questionnaires in gynaecological clinical trials requiring repeated assessment of quality of life over a long period of time. The sexual activity questionnaire is an appropriate tool to carry out investigations of sexual functioning and is worth considering for use in future clinical trials.
The results of the current study demonstrate that an outreach and community-based multiple screening program not only enhances attendance rates but also has a high yield of early cases of various diseases simultaneously, and provides a natural opportunity to elucidate the correlation between neoplastic disease and nonneoplastic chronic disease.
A screening examination of the laryngopharyngeal area should be part of every UGI endoscopy. A serious pathology such as an early cancer may be detected in approximately 1 in 1000 endoscopies.
Opportunistic screening of preselected dental patients for oral cancer and precancer appears to be a promising health promotion strategy and should be subject to formal economic appraisal.
There is a small amount of overdiagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ in mammography screening; however, this should not deter women from being screened. Training and practice in mammographic screening should emphasise detection of small, invasive lesions. Research into the natural history and treatment of the disease should aim at minimising overtreatment of those in situ lesions that are less likely to progress to invasive disease.
The reported knowledge of these dentists regarding oral cancer suggests that they are not as knowledgeable as they could be about cancer prevention and early detection and that they recognize these deficiencies. Most of the dentists were interested in oral cancer CE.
Endoscopic biliary drainage is cheaper and provides better quality of life in patients with biliary obstruction and metastatic pancreatic cancer.
The present study demonstrated no difference in ease of implantation or stent patency between Tannenbaum and polyethylene stents.
HCPS do not appear to provide significant clinical advantages in terms of stent longevity over standard plastic prostheses.
The antireflux biliary stent remains patent for a longer time and hence duodenobiliary reflux may be contributing to stent occlusion.
Covered diamond stents successfully prevented tumour ingrowth and were significantly superior to uncovered stents for the treatment of patients with distal malignant biliary obstruction. However, careful attention must be paid to complications specific to covered self-expandable metal stents, such as acute cholecystitis and pancreatitis.
Metal stent placement is the most effective treatment of inoperable malignant common bile duct stricture. Placement of a metal stent is cost effective in patients without hepatic metastases, whereas a plastic stent should be placed in patients with spread of the tumor to the liver.
Metal stent placement is an effective treatment for inoperable malignant distal common bile duct obstruction, but Tannenbaum stent placement is a cost-saving strategy, as compared with metal stent placement, especially for patients with liver metastases and expected short survival time.
The 2 uncovered metal stents are comparable in terms of placement, occlusion rates, overall stent patency, and patient survival; Hanaro stent insertion, however, seems to be a cost-saving strategy at least in Greece.
Metallic stents and plastic stents exchanged every 3 months are valuable alternatives for increasing complication-free survival in patients with malignant strictures of the common bile duct. Metal stents are advantageous in patients with the longest life expectancy.
No significant differences in the patency of 3 types of stents were detected in this randomized trial. In particular, the hydrophilic hydromer-coated plastic stent did not provide clinical advantages despite its smooth surface.
The Spiral Z-stent is comparable with the Wallstent in terms of placement, occlusion rates, and overall patency. Occasional early occlusion of both stents suggests tumor characteristics instead of the size of the mesh openings in the stents as important factors.
The more-effective SEMS are recommended in unresectable patients with malignant common bile duct strictures, who survive a median of 4.5 months. Less costly plastic stents are preferable in the one third of patients who have distant metastases. In our study, the cost was equal.
These results show that DoubleLayer stents have a longer patency period than PE stents. Patients who received PE stents had a higher risk of stent occlusion (relative risk 3.05; 95 % CI, 1.57 - 5.89) before death than DLS patients.
This study did not confirm improved patency of Tannenbaum-type Teflon-coated stents. Proximal migration prompts for additional design modifications.
Ultraflex Diamond stents are easy to insert and provide a high success rate of biliary drainage with minimal complication. Although long-term patency rates obtained with this stent were similar to those observed with Wallstents, no firm conclusion can be drawn in this regard due to the relatively small number of patients studied.
No significant difference in overall stent performance between the two groups was found, although more stents placed above the sphincter of Oddi migrated. The time until dysfunction of the stent might be increased if migration of stents placed inside the common bile duct could be avoided.
Endoscopic stenting for unresectable pancreatic cancer provides equivalent duration of survival at reduced cost and shorter hospital stay, although subsequent stent changes are necessary. When curative resection is not possible, endoscopic biliary drainage should be considered a good first choice for palliative management.
The same clogging events occurred in both PE and HCPC stents. The most remarkable observation was the identification of networks of large dietary fibers, resulting from duodenal reflux, acting as a filter. The build-up of this intraluminal framework of dietary fibers appears to be a major factor contributing to the multifactorial process of stent clogging.
The occlusion rate and patency of Diamond stents for malignant biliary obstruction appear to be inferior to those of Wallstents and similar to reported values for polyethylene stents. Prospective randomized comparisons of Wallstents and newer self-expanding metal stents are warranted.
Most patients with pancreatic cancer, even at the end of our 15-year study period, still presented with metastatic disease, and the survival rate for such patients did not change in a meaningful way over time. The proportion of patients with nonmetastatic pancreatic cancer who underwent potentially curative surgery increased over time in the U.S.; the 2-year survival rate for such patients improved, but remained poor.
Endoscopic therapy offers safe and effective management options for palliation of major symptoms associated with inoperable pancreatic cancer.
A practical strategy could be based on tumour size at diagnosis: a metal stent should be systematically chosen for patients with an inoperable tumour smaller than 30 mm, while larger tumours are efficiently palliated by a plastic stent.
A new, membrane-covered, self-expandable metal stent has a tendency towards better long-term patency than the uncovered metal stent, and it can effectively prevent tumor ingrowth into the stent. Also it is possible to remove an occluded membrane-covered stent. However, a case-controlled study, including a larger patient number, and long-term follow-up are needed.
With the advent of laparoscopic and endoscopic surgery, palliation of both gastric outflow obstruction and obstructive jaundice can also be accomplished using the endo-laparoscopic approach. In comparing to the open double bypass, operation time, intraoperative blood loss and incidence of wound infection are significantly less and patients can have early resumption of diet. However, the results can be improved further with a better patient selection and perioperative optimization.
In addition to other mechanisms of biliary stent occlusion, duodenobiliary reflux appears to play an important role. A stent design capable of at least partly preventing this type of reflux might be of clinical benefit.
Covered Wallstents are safe with acceptable complication rates. However, we found no significant difference between the stent patencies of covered and uncovered Wallstents.
This trial failed to demonstrate that the addition of surgery to radiation therapy improved outcome of patients with a single brain metastasis. Thus, the efficacy of surgery plus radiation compared with radiation alone needs to be addressed by further clinical trials and/or a meta-analysis.
In patients harboring a single, small-sized metastasis, Gamma Knife surgery alone is less invasive; local tumor control seems to be as high as after surgery plus WBRT. Distant tumor control, however, is significantly less frequently achieved (after radiosurgery alone). The role of radiosurgical salvage therapy (alternatively to WBRT) for distant tumor control deserves further prospective evaluation.
Patients with cancer and single metastases to the brain who receive treatment with surgical resection and postoperative radiotherapy have fewer recurrences of cancer in the brain and are less likely to die of neurologic causes than similar patients treated with surgical resection alone.
Adding SRS to WBRT improves survival in patients with one brain metastasis. Combining SRS and WBRT improves local tumour control and functional independence in all patients.
In patients with negative surgical margins receiving adjuvant chemotherapy, radiotherapy can be delayed to up to 7 months. Concurrent administration of CMF chemotherapy and radiotherapy is safe and might be reserved for patients at high risk of local recurrence, such as those with positive surgical margins or larger tumor diameters.
We observed no evidence of an increased risk of cardiac toxicity from the addition of left breast tangential irradiation to DOX at a total dose of 180 mg/m2. Additional follow-up is needed to exclude possible late events. In addition, the sequencing of CT and XRT does not appear to affect the risk of cellulitis, arm edema, or brachial plexopathy.
The presence of positive unexcised margins does not have a significant effect on outcome in patients who are treated with chemoendocrine therapy together with radiotherapy. Further clinical trials are required.
This study shows the feasibility of a primary chemoradiotherapy treatment for breast cancer. But to evaluate the impact of this therapy on overall survival and recurrence risk and its possible introduction in clinical practice, we need larger series and longer follow-up.
Concurrent CMF and reduced-dose radiotherapy resulted in a low level of late toxicity and excellent local tumor control, despite the large proportion of patients with substantial risk factors for local disease recurrence. Future studies of concurrent regimens, particularly in patients at high risk of local disease recurrence, are warranted.
These data suggest that delaying irradiation in an effort to reduce the risk of systemic relapse does not increase the risk of local failure.
Our results show that in addition to traditional prognostic factors, the sequencing of radiation therapy and chemotherapy also predict for increased risk of any type of recurrence or further tumor death.
This concurrent CT-RT scheme had acceptable toxicity and outcome. Further comparison of this approach allowing prompt initiation of both CT and RT to alternative sequences is warranted.
Delays in the initiation of irradiation are associated with increased risk of relapse in the breast. When possible, the interval between definitive breast surgery (lumpectomy or reexcision) and the initiation of radiation therapy should be fewer than 120 days.
The results of the current study demonstrate that the concurrent administration of CMF and RT is associated with a low risk of serious toxicity and is an acceptable adjuvant regimen for patients with breast carcinoma.
For node positive patients receiving breast-conserving surgery followed by radiation therapy, the incidence of breast recurrence in the conserved ipsilateral breast within 4 years was between 8 and 9% for pre/perimenopausal patients and between 3 and 6% for postmenopausal patients. After 48 months of median follow-up, administering radiation therapy after three or six cycles of CMF for pre/perimenopausal women, or after no cycles or three cycles of CMF for postmenopausal women does not influence overall efficacy or local control in this series.
In patients requiring chemotherapy and radiation treatments for a local-regional breast cancer, a delay in the initiation of radiation for a period of 6 months or greater from diagnosis resulted in a higher local failure rate. Furthermore, this higher local failure rate was associated with an increased rate of distant metastases and a decreased overall survival rate.
The results of the current study were comparable to other published reports and supported the association of higher IBTR rates with positive or indeterminate margins compared with negative, pathologic margins. Furthermore, young age (age < 35 years at diagnosis) was associated with the highest risk of IBTR regardless of margin status.
Patients almost everywhere in Canada wait longer for radiotherapy than they do almost anywhere in the United States.
The concurrent administration of chemotherapy and radiotherapy deteriorates patients' QL but in a proportion similar to sequential administration while presenting the advantage of a shorter duration of treatment. However, increased fatigue, pain, and loss of appetite as well as difficulties in patients' daily lives have to be taken into account in therapeutic decision-making analysis.
Adjuvant chemotherapy with TAC, as compared with FAC, significantly improves the rates of disease-free and overall survival among women with operable node-positive breast cancer.
The use of paclitaxel and RT in the primary treatment of breast cancer should be undertaken with caution. Clinical trials with the use of combination CT, including paclitaxel plus RT, whether concurrent or sequential, must evaluate carefully the incidence of radiation pneumonitis.
FC-R is highly active as initial or salvage therapy in patients with CLL or indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Collection of autologous stem cells during molecular remission is feasible and may facilitate future exploration of high-dose therapy in these patients.
Like chlorambucil-based protocols, the MCP regimen is a cost-effective and safe option for the treatment of patients with WM. Furthermore, the results obtained do not appear to be inferior to those yielded by more expensive, aggressive, and toxic intravenous protocols.
The studies available provide valuable information on the course of cancer pain and its treatment. However, the evidence they provide is insufficient to estimate confidently the effectiveness of the WHO analgesic ladder for the management of cancer pain. Until results from carefully designed controlled trials are available, it would be inappropriate to judge the performance of clinicians, programs, and institutions or to design policies based on such evidence.
A benefit of partial over non-enriched enrollment could not be demonstrated because the degree of enrichment was rather small, and possibly because enrichment produced little enhancement of treatment effect. Whether a greater degree of enrichment would result in important differences is unknown. Researchers reporting clinical trials with any enrichment must describe both process and extent of enrichment. As things stand, the effects of enriched enrollment remain unknown for neuropathic pain trials.
The use of bevacizumab during and up to 10 months after carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy prolongs the median progression-free survival by about 4 months in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. (Funded by the National Cancer Institute and Genentech; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The combination of pegylated LD with carboplatin is effective, showing less neurotoxicity and alopecia than paclitaxel-carboplatin. It thus warrants a further phase III evaluation as an alternative treatment option for platinum-sensitive OC patients.
Bevacizumab improved progression-free survival in women with ovarian cancer. The benefits with respect to both progression-free and overall survival were greater among those at high risk for disease progression. (Funded by Roche and others; ICON7 Controlled-Trials.com number, ISRCTN91273375.).
To the authors' knowledge, the current study is the largest study regarding pancreatic cancer performed to date, and the first to investigate national practice patterns for multimodality therapy utilization. Multimodality therapy utilization has increased over time and appears to have a beneficial impact on survival.
The combination of taxanes and anthracyclines as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for early breast cancer improves the chance of achieving both higher BCS and pCR rates.
R2 resection was an independent predictor of poor prognosis after pancreatoduodenectomy/pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy, whereas R1 resection did not independently affect the survival.
In this combined experience, en bloc vascular resection consisting of venous resection alone, arterial resection alone, or combined vascular resection at the time of pancreatectomy for adenocarcinoma did not adversely affect postoperative mortality, morbidity, or overall survival. The need for vascular resection should not be a contraindication to surgical resection in the selected patient.
Surgical procedures provoke the hematogenous dissemination of cancer cells perioperatively. Therefore, new strategies during operations to prevent liver metastases are needed to improve the survival of patients with biliary-pancreatic cancer.
Adjuvant chemotherapy has a significant survival benefit in patients with resected pancreatic cancer, whereas adjuvant chemoradiotherapy has a deleterious effect on survival.
The addition of gemcitabine to adjuvant fluorouracil-based chemoradiation was associated with a survival benefit for patients with resected pancreatic cancer, although this improvement was not statistically significant.
Overall survival rates for pancreatic cancer have not changed in 2 decades. A small minority of patients presented with limited, resectable disease, but the best survival rates per stage were achieved after surgical resection. Five-year survival rates after resection reported herein corroborated the improved survival rates of more recent large, single institution studies.
The incidence of pancreatic cancer is stable. A shift from localized to regional disease was observed over time. The overall survival remains poor despite important improvements among patients with early stage disease.
Distal pancreatectomy with extended lymphadenectomy for the treatment of invasive pancreatic carcinoma of the body and tail contributed to long-term survival in selected patients without mortality. Effective postoperative treatment should be evaluated in patients with positive lymph nodes and/or the presence of histologic vein invasion even after a curative resection because long-term survival cannot be expected.
There is relatively poor overall compliance with the NCCN PC guidelines in California's large hospitals. Higher compliance rates are correlated with improved survival. Compliance is an important potential measure of the quality of care.
Tamoxifen has no efficacy in the treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
the update of the present study confirms that tamoxifen is not effective in prolonging survivals, both in advanced patients and in those potentially curable and that the CLIP score is able to predict prognosis.
Tamoxifen has no efficacy in the treatment of patients with advanced HCC and response to treatment was not affected by the expression of hormone receptors.
In conclusion, the results of our study indicate that combination therapy using doxorubicin and tamoxifen is unlikely to considerably improve survival compared to tamoxifen alone in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Our data suggest a negative effect of an ER(+) tumor on patient survival after curative resection of advanced HCC.
No treatment has clearly proven efficacy in survival. 5-Fluorouracil, adriamycin and transarterial chemotherapy were not associated with survival benefit at 1 year. The number of randomized controlled trials was insufficient to enable a conclusion to be reached for interferon and percutaneous ethanol injection. Controversy persists concerning tamoxifen efficacy. Interferon and tamoxifen require new randomized controlled trials on a larger population of patients.
The ICCC-3 respects currently existing international standards and was designed for use in international, population-based, epidemiological studies and cancer registries. The use of an international classification system is especially important in the field of pediatric oncology, in which the low frequency of cases requires rigorous procedures to ensure data comparability.
Hormonal stimulation appears important for the development of radiation-induced breast cancer, as evidenced by the reduced risk associated with ovarian damage from alkylating agents or radiation. The high radiation-related risk, which did not diminish at the highest doses or the longest follow-up, however, suggests the need for lifetime surveillance and programs of patient and public awareness.
Breast cancer projections varied considerably by type of HL therapy, time since HL diagnosis, and age at end of follow-up. These estimates are applicable to HL survivors treated with regimens of the past and can be used to counsel such patients and plan management and preventive strategies. Projections should be used with caution, however, in patients treated with more recent approaches, including limited-field radiotherapy and/or ovary-sparing chemotherapy.
Combined topotecan and oral etoposide was inappropriate in patients with recurrent ovarian carcinoma because of unpredictable hematologic toxicity. However, the high objective response rate highlighted the potential additive effect of topoisomerase I and II inhibitors.
Independent radiological review in conjunction with the peer review group in this trial enabled rigorous and consistent application of response criteria. This decreased the response rate from 25.8% to 15.2%, but this represents a more objective assessment. CT scanning is an objective technique for assessing response rates in phase II studies whereas US is subjective and dose not necessarily allow accurate lesion assessment on subsequent examinations, nor allows independent review at a later date. For these reasons it should not be used in such studies for accurate lesion assessment. Cross-sectional imaging techniques such as CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) do allow accurate lesion assessment and independent review at a later date, but standard protocols need to be instituted, to allow consistency and a comparison to be made with subsequent studies using the same agent and a broad comparison to be made with other agents.
Despite the relatively favorable ovarian cancer patient population treated in this trial (platinum-sensitive recurrent disease), the response rate was disappointingly low. Considering the three- to fivefold higher objective response rates observed in other trials employing topotecan in individuals with platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer utilizing a 5-day treatment program (delivered every 3 weeks), the results of the current study provide strong support for the conclusion that clinically relevant antineoplastic activity of this agent is highly schedule dependent.
The combination of VRL and hydrocortisone compared with hydrocortisone alone resulted in improved clinical benefit, PFS and PSA response rate. This therapeutic gain is similar to that previously reported with mitoxantrone in combination with low-dose corticosteroids. There was no gain in survival; however, the combination is well tolerated in this elderly group of patients, who often present cardiac co-morbidities, and therefore offers an active and safe therapeutic option for patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.
Patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer who are asymptomatic but had progressive disease had a significantly higher response rate when treated with mitoxantrone and prednisone as demonstrated by the 50% or greater decrease in prostate specific antigen compared to treatment with prednisone alone. Time to treatment failure was significantly prolonged in the chemotherapy treated group but survival rates were not different.
The results of our randomized Phase II study indicated that the new combination treatment (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analog, somatostatin analog, and dexamethasone) may be equally effective as salvage chemotherapy in patients with HRPC in terms of the clinical and PSA response, overall survival, and time to progression. A larger prospective Phase III trial is required to confirm our observations.
Although this study did not prove estramustine phosphate to be superior to placebo in terms of protocol end points, it generates the hypothesis that prolonged survival may be achieved with estramustine phosphate treatment in a subgroup of patients and that this may be predicted by a decrease in PSA after 1 month of therapy.
Intravenous MMC (15 mg/m(2) q 6 weeks) cannot be recommended as adjuvant treatment in M1 poor prognosis prostate cancer due to its negative impact on QL and lack of efficacy. In general, QL assessments should be mandatory when adjuvant chemotherapy is evaluated in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin yielded a noteworthy objective palliative response rate and a mean survival of 13 months for patients with symptomatic HRPCA. The dosage tested in the current study should be used in future Phase II and Phase III trials of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-containing combination regimens for patients with HRPCA.
We conclude that low dose administration of etoposide or estramustine phosphate dose not improve clinical response and survival in a short term in castrated patients, but increases the adverse effects due to the drugs in these patients. In addition, the pathological evaluation at 6 months after treatment appears to reflect the clinical response at that time in newly diagnosed patients with advanced prostatic cancer.
Chemohormonal therapy with estramustine phosphate plus LHRH agonist showed longer clinical progression-free survival than the hormonal therapy with flutamide plus LHRH agonist (P = 0.03), although there was no significant difference in the overall survival. A larger-scaled trial with more statistical power is required to clarify that the former regimen is more beneficial than the latter for newly diagnosed patients with advanced prostate cancer.
Although multidrug resistance may explain the marginal efficacy of cytotoxic drugs, methods to overcome such resistance and, more importantly, new classes of agents must be developed. In addition, reliable disease markers must be found for osseous and visceral metastases to avoid the prevailing confusion in evaluating more precisely the destruction of prostate cancer cells.
Men with prostate cancer 60 years or younger treated with high dose radiotherapy have an excellent biochemical outcome and fare as well as older patients. The use of conventional dose levels in patients 60 years or younger was associated with an 8-fold increase in the biochemical relapse rate and these doses should not be considered appropriate for the treatment of localized prostate cancer.
The study confirms the possibility that ultrasonography can detect mammographically occult breast carcinoma in dense breasts. The evidence is insufficient to recommend this policy in routine screening practice but suggests that, at least in current clinical practice, adding ultrasonography in dense breasts may be useful despite the substantial costs.
The correlation between tumor size and lethality is well captured by a simple equation that is consistent with breast carcinoma death as the result of discrete events of cellular spread occurring with small but definable probabilities.
The Size+Nodes method was shown to be capable of accurately estimating the risk of death due to invasive breast carcinoma from information on the size of the primary tumor and the number of positive lymph nodes. In addition, this method was used to stratify women into groups according to breast carcinoma lethality. In contrast, classification of women according to lymph node positivity, T status, or disease stage created groups with wide and overlapping levels of lethality.
The health care costs and adverse health effects averted by the QNSP justify its costs. These results show that well-designed evaluations can yield--at least sometimes--benefits substantially greater than their high costs. This raises an important policy issue: are these evaluations now being under- or over used?
Despite aggressive local therapy patients with high risk superficial bladder cancer are at lifelong risk for development of stage progression and upper tract tumors. A third of patients are at risk for death from bladder cancer, justifying careful and vigilant long-term followup. These results support the use of initial aggressive local therapy in patients with high risk superficial bladder cancer.
For patients with no prior intravesical therapy adjuvant intravesical chemotherapy or immunotherapy is a treatment option after endoscopic removal of low grade Ta bladder cancers. Intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guerin or mitomycin C is recommended for carcinoma in situ, and after endoscopic removal of T1 and high grade Ta tumors.
A single-layer continuous anastomosis can be constructed in significantly less time and with a similar rate of complications compared with the two-layer technique. It also costs less than any other method and can be incorporated into a surgical training program without a significant increase in complications.
This study proves that intestinal anastomosis with one layer of suture is as safe as anastomosis with two layers in children, and the time spent for completion of the procedure is significantly less with one plane of suture. For those reasons, it is the method of choice for intestinal anastomosis in children.
Delirium is a frequent, multifactorial complication in advanced cancer. Despite its terminal presentation in most patients, delirium is reversible in approximately 50% of episodes. Delirium precipitated by opioids and other psychoactive medications and dehydration is frequently reversible with change of opioid or dose reduction, discontinuation of unnecessary psychoactive medication, or hydration, respectively.
These data suggest that cognitive screening should take place in patients with advanced cancer because cognitive failure is highly prevalent in this population, is reversible in a significant proportion of patients, and the presence of sustained cognitive impairment is a poor prognosticator for discharge. However, these results need to be confirmed in prospective studies.
As compared with radical cystectomy alone, the use of neoadjuvant methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin followed by radical cystectomy increases the likelihood of eliminating residual cancer in the cystectomy specimen and is associated with improved survival among patients with locally advanced bladder cancer.
Despite a meta-analysis of all known randomized trials, there is still insufficient information to obtain a definitive answer to the question of whether neoadjuvant cisplatin-based chemotherapy improves the survival of patients with locally advanced bladder cancer. Such chemotherapy cannot therefore be currently recommended for routine use and any planned clinical trial should include a 'no chemotherapy' control arm.
This population-based, case-control study of esophageal cancer in urban Shanghai suggests a protective effect of green tea consumption. Although these findings are consistent with studies in laboratory animals, indicating that green tea can inhibit esophageal carcinogenesis, further investigations are definitely needed.
Findings from this study provided evidence that dietary habits, tobacco-smoking and alcohol drinking contribute to the etiology of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. A healthy dietary habit, with smoking cessation and alcohol controlling is of a great importance in the prevention of esophageal cancer.
The findings corroborate that H. pylori infection has an important role in the development of chronic atrophic gastritis in middle-aged Japanese men. Green tea consumption may be protective against the advance of atrophic gastritis. Vegetables, fruits, or garlic had no protective effect against the development of atrophic gastritis in the study.
DGT trail was not shown to have beneficial effects in alleviating esophageal precancerous lesions and abnormal cell proliferation patterns. Calcium supplementation did not produce apparent long-term effects on EC. BCH II could be considered as precancerous lesions of EC. The quantitative histopathological analysis in terms of number of proliferating basal cell layers is of importance in determining the high-risk subjects for EC and evaluating the intervention results. Follow-up studies with repeated endoscopic biopsies are the powerful strategy for early detection and mortality control of EC and GAC in the high incidence area.
The outcome of the several experimental studies suggests that green tea possess anti-inflammatory and anticarcinogenic potential, which can be exploited against a variety of skin disorders. Although more clinical studies are needed, supplementation of skin care products with green tea may have a profound impact on various skin disorders in the years to come. Arch Dermatol. 2000;136:989-994
The data do not allow firm conclusions regarding the effectiveness of acupuncture for acute low back pain. For chronic low back pain, acupuncture is more effective for pain relief and functional improvement than no treatment or sham treatment immediately after treatment and in the short-term only. Acupuncture is not more effective than other conventional and "alternative" treatments. The data suggest that acupuncture and dry-needling may be useful adjuncts to other therapies for chronic low back pain. Because most of the studies were of lower methodologic quality, there is a clear need for higher quality trials in this area.
Sham-controlled RCTs suggest specific effects of acupuncture for pain control in patients with peripheral joint OA. Considering its favourable safety profile acupuncture seems an option worthy of consideration particularly for knee OA. Further studies are required particularly for manual or electro-acupuncture in hip OA.
The result of our systematic review suggested that the effectiveness of acupuncture in palliative care for cancer patients is promising, especially in reducing chemotherapy or radiotherapyinduced side effects and cancer pain. Acupuncture may be an appropriate adjunctive treatment for palliative care.
Acupuncture that meets criteria for adequate treatment is significantly superior to sham acupuncture and to no additional intervention in improving pain and function in patients with chronic knee pain. Due to the heterogeneity in the results, however, further research is required to confirm these findings and provide more information on long-term effects.
Steatohepatitic morphology in HCC is frequent in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease-associated cirrhosis (P = .009) and is significantly associated with metabolic risk factors (P = .03). By recognizing SH pattern, one may predict associated metabolic diseases and determine the prognosis both in pretransplant and posttransplant patients.
Paclitaxel had moderate activity in patients with carcinosarcoma of the uterus. The GOG is currently studying the combination of paclitaxel and ifosfamide versus ifosfamide alone for patients with advanced or recurrent carcinosarcoma of the uterus.
Although the number of cases was small, the regimen evaluated in the current study demonstrated higher activity and lesser toxicity than those found in previous studies in patients with advanced or recurrent uterine carcinosarcoma. Additional phase II clinical studies are necessary to evaluate fully the benefits of this regimen.
Histologic type is an independent prognostic variable for survival in uterine sarcomas. Low-grade ESS has the best clinical outcome, whereas leiomyosarcoma has the poorest one. It is noteworthy that, when adjusting for stage and mitotic count, leiomyosarcoma has a significantly worse prognosis than carcinosarcoma.
These results demonstrate the danger of considering each variable in isolation when the relation between variables can lead to spurious significance or lack of significance because of the imbalances in the numbers between groups of prognostic importance. This study underlines the need for an adequate inspection of the intra-abdominal contents at the time of hysterectomy for uterine fibroids.
Compared with the PLAFUR regimen, TOMOX-RT achieved a greater incidence of downstaging but was associated with a correspondingly greater rate of acute Grade 3+ toxicity. With longer follow-up, the local control and survival rates might offer additional guidance as to the choice of regimen.
An optimized surgical technique (TME) for rectal cancer can reduce the rate of local recurrence and increase overall survival. This improved surgical treatment can be implemented on a national level within a few years. Specialization of surgeons, feedback of results and a separate rectal cancer registry are thought to be major contributors to the improved treatment.
ABCD was well-tolerated at doses up to 5 times greater then those usually tolerated with amphotericin B. Renal toxicity was markedly less than expected, and there were no other unexpected severe toxicities. Further randomized studies are needed to further define the role of this and other liposomal products in children.
In highly immunocompromised patients, the effectiveness of 3 mg/kg of liposomal amphotericin B per day as first-line therapy for invasive aspergillosis is demonstrated, with a response rate of 50% and a 12-week survival rate of 72%. The regimen of 10 mg/kg per day demonstrated no additional benefit and higher rates of nephrotoxicity.
Intravenous fluconazole can be an effective and safe alternative to amphotericin B for empiric antifungal therapy in many febrile neutropenic patients. However, because fluconazole may be ineffective in the treatment of Aspergillus, patients at risk for that infection should be evaluated by chest radiograph, computed tomographic scanning, and cultures before the use of empiric fluconazole therapy.
This study demonstrates advantages with lipid-based formulations over conventional AmB in terms of reduced risk of mortality and renal toxicity. Future trials in patients with proven fungal infection should control for factors such as premedication, infusion rates, fluid preloading, sodium/potassium supplementation, and concomitant medication.
Empirical antifungal treatment is associated with a lower rate of IFIs but no significant difference in overall mortality. The assessment of IFIs in these trials may have been biased, offering only weak support to standard practice. Azoles, liposomal amphotericin B or caspofungin should be preferred. Pre-emptive antifungal therapy should be considered and further investigated.
Cancer or cancer treatment may increase the risk for infertility leading to IVF. After IVF, in most cases with treatment with fertility hormones, a significantly low cancer risk was found. Ovarian cancer showed an increased risk, although lower than before IVF. One possible reason is ovarian pathology causing both infertility and an increased cancer risk.
General cancer risk or risk of hormonal-related cancers in women was not increased by IVF. The differences in certain cancers suggest a healthy patient effect or may be partly caused by residual socio-economic differences. More large studies and reanalysis of existing studies are needed to evaluate cancer risk among infertile women by subgroups regarding the cause of infertility. When evaluating risk of cancer after drug exposure, dosage and the use of different medicaments should be taken into consideration.
In this large prospective study, parity was the only reproductive factor that had a substantial independent association with ovarian cancer. Long term oral contraceptive use also appeared to have an inverse relationship with ovarian cancer, although this association was of borderline significance (P = 0.11) after adjustment for other risk factors.
To discriminate between the possible carcinogenic effects of various ovulation induction regimens, subfertility disorders, and reproductive characteristics associated with subfertility, future studies should include large populations of subfertile women with sufficient follow-up time. In such cohort studies the cause of subfertility should be measured adequately (based on medical records) and information about reproductive characteristics should be collected for all cohort members. Such studies should also include a group of subfertile women with an indication for FD use but not so treated.
The most important modifiers of ovarian cancer risk (parity and oral contraceptive use) showed similar associations across the histologies. Nevertheless, the unique associations seen for other modifiers support the conjecture that the histologic types of epithelial ovarian cancer have different etiologies, which should be addressed in future investigations of the molecular basis of ovarian cancers and their responses to therapies.
This meta-analysis suggests that there is no significant association between IVF and cancer risk. A possible beneficial effect was shown in the subgroup of breast cancer meta-analysis. Excess risk of ovarian cancer was observed in the analysis of all the studies and subgroups. Special attention should be made to women who may be diagnosed with cancer during or shortly after IVF treatment. Studies of high methodological quality with larger population and longer follow-up are required to provide more evidences for a better understanding of the association.
In the largest case-control study to date, a range of effective methods of contraception reduced the risk for ovarian cancer. OCs and tubal ligation reduced ovarian cancer risk with lower odds ratios with longer duration of use, whereas IUDs reduced risk overall, having the greatest impact with short duration of use.
These results suggest a possible association between ovarian epithelial dysplasia and ovulation induction therapy, in accord with previous reports of increased risk of ovarian cancer in women with a history of fertility treatment. The higher dysplasia score could be attributable to the drugs used to induce ovulation or to a genetic susceptibility to ovarian cancer.
IVF does not seem to be associated with elevated cervical cancer risk, nor with ovarian or endometrial cancer when the confounding effect of infertility was neutralized in studies allowing such comparisons. Of note, only one study provided follow-up longer than 10 years for the group exposed to IVF. Future cohort studies should preferably use infertile women as the reference group, rely on IVF-registered valid exposure data, adjust for a variety of meaningful confounders and adopt relatively longer follow-up periods before sound conclusions are drawn.
In this prospective trial of standard carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy in a heterogeneous population of elderly patients, chemotherapy was well tolerated by patients who underwent upfront debulking surgery, had a PS of 0-1, and had few comorbidities. Patients not undergoing upfront debulking surgery because of either advanced cancer or poor surgical risk had excess morbidity/mortality. Prospective studies to identify risk factors for toxicity prediction are needed.
Even in a randomised trial in which comprehensive surgical staging was strongly advised in the study protocol the majority of patients (66%) were incompletely staged. Factors relating to a lack of surgical skills attributed most to the number of incompletely staged patients, but insufficient knowledge of the tumour behaviour and routes of spread of ovarian cancer also contributed substantially to this problem. Multicentre trials recruiting patients from many institutes with small volume contribution to the study, run the risk of inadequate adherence to the study protocol.
Due to the small number of patients the study was inconclusive as regards the question of adjuvant chemotherapy. The survival curves were superimposable, but with wide confidence intervals. DNA-ploidy adds objective independent prognostic information regarding both DFS and DSS in early ovarian cancer.
Long-term follow-up has not demonstrated a significant difference in overall or disease free survival between treatment arms. An excess of second primary malignancies (35%) was observed suggesting that lifelong surveillance is required in this population. Further research with newer treatment programs are needed to improve the cure rates in this population.
Adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy for women with Stage I ovarian carcinoma improved survival and reduced the risk of recurrent disease. The optimally staged group accounted for approximately 10% of women with Stage I disease. The role of adjuvant chemotherapy in optimally staged patients (especially those with good prognostic factors) has not been assessed adequately.
Conservative surgery for patients with EOC could be considered in young patients with Stage IA Grade 1 disease adequately staged and desiring to preserve fertility potential. This procedure should not performed in patients with disease staged higher than FIGO Stage IA.
As described by other authors, we confirm that tumor grade is the single most important biological prognostic factor in early ovarian carcinoma. The thoroughness of the staging impacts significantly on survival, particularly in poorly differentiated carcinomas. Fertility-sparing surgery is not associated with a worse outcome than standard radical surgery.
Although no statistically significant overall survival difference was observed between the two radiation therapy schedules, the better tolerance of the alternating schedule justifies the choice of this schedule with this chemotherapy regimen, although it may not be applicable to other chemotherapy regimens.
Four cycles of cisplatin plus etoposide and a course of radiotherapy (45 Gy, given either once or twice daily) beginning with cycle 1 of the chemotherapy resulted in overall two- and five-year survival rates of 44 percent and 23 percent, a considerable improvement in survival rates over previous results in patients with limited small-cell lung cancer.
The total time in which the entire combined-modality treatment is delivered may be important. From seven randomized trials, it can be concluded that the timing of the radiotherapy as such is not very important. Some phase III trials support the use of accelerated chest radiation together with cisplatin-etoposide chemotherapy, delivered from the first day of treatment, although no firm conclusions can be drawn from the available data. The best results are reported in studies in which the time from the start of treatment to the end of the radiotherapy was less than 30 days. This has to be taken into consideration when treatment modalities incorporating new chemotherapeutic agents and radiotherapy are considered.
Surgical treatment of microscopic disease in grossly normal para-aortic lymph nodes may generate occasional long-term survivors. Selecting appropriate candidates who might benefit from D4 resections needs to be refined. On the basis of this study, a nationwide study should be considered.
The increment of surgical morbidity and mortality rates attributed to D2 LND is largely caused by the effect of splenectomy and pancreaticosplenectomy. A significant survival benefit because of D2 LND was found. The results support the value of extended LND in the surgical treatment of gastric cancer.
Both resection of 15 or more lymph nodes and extended lymphadenectomy contributed to the survival advantage observed in patients with AJCC stage II gastric cancer. The D2 gastric resection prolonged the median survival time and improved the 5-year survival rate for patients with 15 or more resected lymph nodes.
Based on Level I-III evidence, for selected patients with small (up to 4 cm) brain metastases (up to three in number and four in one randomized trial), the addition of radiosurgery boost to whole-brain radiotherapy improves brain control as compared with whole-brain radiotherapy alone. In patients with a single brain metastasis, radiosurgery boost with whole-brain radiotherapy improves survival. There is a small risk of toxicity associated with radiosurgery boost as compared with whole-brain radiotherapy alone. In selected patients treated with radiosurgery alone for newly diagnosed brain metastases, overall survival is not altered. However, local and distant brain control is significantly poorer with omission of upfront whole-brain radiotherapy (Level I-III evidence). Whether neurocognition or quality of life outcomes are different between initial radiosurgery alone vs. whole-brain radiotherapy (with or without radiosurgery boost) is unknown, because this has not been adequately tested. There was no statistically significant difference in overall toxicity between those treated with radiosurgery alone vs. whole-brain radiotherapy and radiosurgery boost based on an interim report from one randomized study. There is insufficient evidence as to the clinical benefit/risks radiosurgery used in the setting of recurrent or progressive brain metastases, although radiographic responses are well-documented.
The new index, the GPA, is as prognostic as the RPA and more prognostic than the other indices. The GPA is the least subjective, most quantitative and easiest to use of the four indices. Future clinical trials should compare the GPA with the RPA to prospectively validate these findings.
For selected patients, we conclude no OS benefit for WBRT plus SRS boost compared with SRS alone. Although additional WBRT improves DBC and LC, SRS alone should be considered a routine treatment option due to favorable neurocognitive outcomes, less risk of late side effects, and does not adversely affect the patients performance status.
Radiation-induced pelvic IF following radiation therapy for gynecologic malignancies were frequently observed in the postmenopausal patients within 1 year after external beam radiation therapy. Symmetric fractures of the both sacroiliac joints were the characteristic pattern of pelvic IF. Knowledge of characteristic imaging pattern of IF is essential in order to rule out the bone metastasis. Therapy recommendations are conservative with analgesics.
We conclude that laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection is feasible, similar to conventional approach concerning surgery duration, intra operative morbidity, blood requirements and post operative morbidity. Larger number of cases and an extended follow-up are required to adequate evaluation of oncological results for patients undergoing laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection after chemoradiation for radical treatment of distal rectal cancer.
An intravasal fibrinolytic "shutdown" occurs not only after conventional but also after laparoscopic colorectal resection. Both operative techniques had similar effects on postoperative intravasal fibrinolytic capacity. Therefore, the lower incidence of thromboembolic complications after laparoscopic colorectal resections does not seem to be caused by a lesser depression of the intravasal fibrinolytic capacity.
After closing the abdominal cavity, postoperative changes in fibrinolytic capacity of peritoneal fluid can be determined in samples collected by a drain. However, there were no major differences in the postoperative course of fibrinolytic capacity in peritoneal fluid after laparoscopic and conventional colorectal resections.
Wound healing is associated with a strong local increase in pro-angiogenic factors and a decrease in antiangiogenic factors. The investigation of locally produced factors offered greater insight into the process of angiogenesis during wound healing than could be acquired from the circulation.
Despite the conservative approach taken in this study, the clinical burden, workload and relative risk of readmissions related to adhesions following open gynaecological surgery was considerable. Post-operative adhesions have important consequences for patients, surgeons and the healthcare system. These results emphasise the need for more effective strategies to prevent adhesions.
In patients with operable gastric or lower esophageal adenocarcinomas, a perioperative regimen of ECF decreased tumor size and stage and significantly improved progression-free and overall survival. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN93793971 [controlled-trials.com].).
Both procedures have a similar survival probability. The authors believe that SG, which has been reported to be associated with a better nutritional status and quality of life, should be the procedure of choice, provided that the proximal margin of the resection falls in healthy tissue.
Our results failed to provide proof of an effect of adjuvant chemotherapy with PELF on overall survival or disease-free survival. The estimated effect of chemotherapy (10% reduction in the hazard of death or relapse) is modest and consistent with the results of meta-analyses of adjuvant chemotherapy without platinum agents.
Postoperative chemotherapy can improve overall survival after radical surgery for gastric cancer; there is no standardized chemotherapy regimen. Japanese-style D2 radical surgery plus oral 5-fluorouracil appears an effective treatment at present.
We demonstrated a trend toward fewer overall infections and significantly fewer severe infections in patients given prophylactic antibiotics, which translated into a decrease in the cost of treatment for infectious complications. These findings support antibiotic prophylaxis for patients undergoing ALND.
The majority of nosocomial surgical wound infections develop after the patients' discharge from hospital. A post-discharge surveillance programme including self-reporting of infections by patients and return of questionnaires by patients and surgeons is feasible in an Australian hospital setting. However, such a programme is labour and resource intensive and strategies to increase return of questionnaires are required.
The most frequent nosocomial infection was surgical infection. An ASA higher than 2, the stay prior to surgery; the number of days with a urinary catheter, with a central venous catheter and with mechanical ventilation; as well as the improvement in the use of antimicrobial prophylaxis, were all factors that influenced the frequency of nosocomial infection.
The addition of gum chewing to the standardized postoperative care of children with intestinal anastomosis was not associated with a significantly earlier return of bowel function compared to simple postoperative management, but it was associated with an earlier discharge from hospital, although this earlier discharge had only minor clinical significance and no difference was found in hospital charges.
Gum chewing has a positive effect on the recovery of bowel motility and reduction of surgical hospital stay after a radical prostatectomy. Although retropubic radical prostatectomy does not involve bowel manipulation, gum chewing is an effective and side-effect-free method for the resolution of ileus after surgery.
Gum chewing early in the postoperative period following elective total abdominal hysterectomy and systematic retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy hastens time to bowel motility and ability to tolerate feedings. This inexpensive and well-tolerated treatment should be added as an adjunct in postoperative care of gynecologic oncology.
Gum chewing hastens the return of intestinal function after gastric abdominal surgery in children. The mechanism by which gum chewing initiates an earlier return of gastrointestinal function is still unknown, although neural and humoral hormones are presumed to be mediators in stimulating bowel motility.
Postoperative ileus is associated with a significant clinical and economic burden to the health care system. Strategies such as the development of a multidisciplinary team and the creation of a multimodal protocol are encouraged with continuous quality assurance to assess outcomes at the local level.
Within the framework of a clinical pathway, radical cystectomy can be performed safely with an acceptable rate of early minor and major complications. Delay in the return of bowel function is the most common minor complication. Increased estimated blood loss, transfusion requirement and a major complication predicted a higher likelihood of postoperative ileus. The acceptable rate of early morbidity in this series in a 5-year period validates its use in patients undergoing radical cystectomy.
Laparoscopic surgery in elderly colorectal cancer patients did not result in a difference in radical cure compared with open surgery, and the short-term results except the duration of surgery were excellent. It is an effective procedure for elderly patients with colorectal cancer, especially colon cancer.
Chewing sugarless gum following elective intestinal resection is associated with improved outcomes. Insufficient data were available to demonstrate a reduced rate of clinical complications or reduced cost. An adequately powered, methodologically rigorous trial of gum chewing is required to confirm if there are any benefits and if these result in differences in clinical outcomes such as infection.
The current evidence suggests that gum chewing is associated with early recovery of bowel motility and shorter LOS for women after caesarean section. This safe and inexpensive intervention should be included in routine postoperative care following a caesarean section.
Bisphosphonate treatment of painful osseous metastases due to hormone refractory prostate cancer results in a significant pain decrease and a significant decrease in the daily consumption of analgesics in 75% of patients. Each characteristic is paralleled by an increase in the Karnofsky index, mainly due to better mobility. Bisphosphonate should have a definite role in the palliative management of symptomatic hormone refractory prostate cancer.
Given the significant incidence rate and quality of life implications of skeletal complications and bone metastases, there is an urgent need to identify effective preventive therapies and treatments. Bisphosphonates may have a role in preventing osteopenia and, potentially, bone metastases among men with prostate carcinoma.
Malignant bone disease creates a unique pain state that involves sensitization of the nervous system. Major contributors to the pain state within the bone tissue are osteoclastic bone resorption and the malignant disease itself.
A number of agents exist that have the potential to palliate the effects of osseous metastases and should be routinely applied in the clinical care of the patient with advanced prostate cancer. These include hormones, bone-seeking radiopharmaceuticals, chemotherapy, and bisphosphonates. Strategies under investigation aim to eradicate bone disease, and not merely palliate symptoms. These approaches combine those listed above with tumor-directed targeting of osseous disease and manipulation of the biology that underlies the cancer's relationship to bone.
There was a consensus that chronic pain clinical trials should assess outcomes representing six core domains: (1) pain, (2) physical functioning, (3) emotional functioning, (4) participant ratings of improvement and satisfaction with treatment, (5) symptoms and adverse events, (6) participant disposition (e.g. adherence to the treatment regimen and reasons for premature withdrawal from the trial). Although consideration should be given to the assessment of each of these domains, there may be exceptions to the general recommendation to include all of these domains in chronic pain trials. When this occurs, the rationale for not including domains should be provided. It is not the intention of these recommendations that assessment of the core domains should be considered a requirement for approval of product applications by regulatory agencies or that a treatment must demonstrate statistically significant effects for all of the relevant core domains to establish evidence of its efficacy.
The present results indicate that esophageal balloon cytology is a reliable approach for early SCC and precancerous lesions screening and that DYS and NSCC are important markers for high-risk subjects with predisposition to SCC. Close follow-up to the subjects with HYP, DYS and NSCC may shed light on the natural history for human esophageal carcinogenesis.
Mucosal iodine staining improved endoscopic detection and delineation of HGD and CA in these patients. This simple technique is highly sensitive for identifying these precursor and invasive squamous lesions, and it should be used whenever optimal visualization of squamous mucosal abnormalities is required.
The cost-effectiveness of screening and subsequent surveillance of patients with dysplastic as well as nondysplastic Barrett's esophagus followed by endoscopic or surgical therapy in patients who develop cancer compares favorably to many widely accepted screening strategies for cancer.
The staging of patients with head and neck cancer, and the risk factors for esophageal cancer should include chromoendoscopy of the esophagus as a standard procedure. Extended staging provides critical additional information, which helps to more safely distinguish future candidates for curative and palliative treatment.
Our study suggests that the incidence of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus is lower than initially thought. However, large multicenter studies are required to clarify the epidemiological and clinical factors related to the development of dysplasia and adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus.
Current American Joint Committee on Cancer staging of esophageal cancer is inadequate. Refinement requires redefinition of T1, N1, and M1 classifications. Stage grouping within the constraints of American Joint Committee on Cancer definitions produces less accurate prognosis than free assignment based on survival data.
Strong evidence supports the association of GERD and adenocarcinoma of the esophagus; however, the risk of cancer in any given individual with GERD is low. Barrett esophagus appears to be a common precursor lesion to this cancer. Given the low absolute risk of cancer in those with GERD and the lack of demonstrated efficacy of endoscopic screening, insufficient evidence exists to endorse routine endoscopic screening of patients with chronic GERD symptoms.
The conclusions drawn from those articles showed that the overall prevalence of SEC accounted around 10% and increased to 25% in the 2000s. The overall incidence of lymph node metastasis of SEC was about 25% and its incidences in mucosal and submucosal cancer were 5 and 35%, respectively. The percentage of the cases of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) vs adenocarcinoma (AC) widely varied depending on the geographic locations reported; most SCC cases were from the Asian countries and most AC cases were from the European countries. Clinical significance of multimodal treatment for SEC has dramatically developed in the recent era and could provide various potential therapeutic options for SEC. These concepts make it possible to individualize surgical management of SEC as part of various multimodal treatments. The operative approaches for SEC varied from minimally invasive thoracoscopic esophagectomy, limited transabdominal distal esophagectomy, conventional transthoracic esophagectomy, transhiatal esophagectomy without thoracotomy, en bloc esophagectomy, and to extended esophagectomy with a complete three-field lymph node dissection. A 5-year overall survival rate of SEC after esophagectomy was good (46 to 83%) to excellent (71 and 100%) for mucosal SEC, but far from satisfactory (33 and 78%) for submucosal SEC. Early diagnosis, development of multimodal treatment, standardization of the surgical procedure including routine lymph node dissection, and improved perioperative management of patients have led to a better survival for patients with SEC.
Esophageal balloon cytology, endoscopy, mucosa 1.2% iodine stain, and multipoint biopsy may be the best approach for early diagnosis of esophageal carcinoma. Surgical resection of superficial esophageal cancer provides excellent long-term survival with acceptable quality of life. It was discovered that carcinoma in situ and intramucosal carcinoma gave far better results than the submucosal infiltrative carcinoma, as the latter tends to have a higher frequency of lymphatic metastasis.
Gender, depth of invasion, pathologic stage, number of lymph node metastatic fields, positive surgical margin and tumor recurrence are independent prognostic factors of stage II ESCC. Surgery is still the primary treatment for stage II A esophageal cancer; but surgery-dominant treatment combined with other therapies is recommended for stage II B esophageal cancer.
Acitretin therapy decreased the number of actinic keratoses in renal transplant recipients at a low maintenance dose of 0.2 mg/kg/d and significantly decreased the degree of thickness of the lesions. However, the incidence of new skin malignancies remained unchanged. Despite the high incidence of mucocutaneous side effects, patient's contentment with the aspect of their skin increased significantly.
Little good quality research has been done on the treatments used for the most common cancer in humans. Most trials have included only people with basal cell carcinoma occurring at low risk sites. Only one trial measured recurrence at four years; recurrence rates at one year should be interpreted with caution. Surgery and radiotherapy seem to be the most effective treatments; surgery showed the lowest failure rates. Other treatments might have some use but need to be compared with surgery.
Isotretinoin, at least up to a dosage of 0.5 mg/kg/d, may be safely used in patients with RDEB. Although increased fragility may occur, patients tolerated this drug well and were receptive to its long-term use for possible chemoprevention of cancer. Whether such an effect will occur is yet to be proven.
These data suggest that (1) DNA repair plays a major role in the prevention of cutaneous cancers in the general population and (2) sunlight exposure is responsible for the induction of melanoma as well as nonmelanoma skin cancer in patients with XP, although acting by different mechanisms for the two types of skin cancer.
High-dose exposure to PUVA is associated with a persistent, dose-related increase in the risk of squamous cell cancer, even among patients lacking substantial exposure to other carcinogens and among patients without substantial recent exposure to PUVA. Exposure to PUVA has far less effect on the risk of basal cell cancer. The use of PUVA for psoriasis should be weighed against the increased cancer risk.
The incidence of PCNSL is increasing in Norway. Despite diagnostic and therapeutic advances over the last decades, neither a reduction in diagnostic delay nor any improvement in overall survival with time was observed. The search for improved understanding of etiology and treatment should be intensified.
Pelvic exenteration and reconstruction was found to have a potential to provide long-term survival without postoperative mortality although the morbidity rate is somewhat high. Multivariate analysis showed that tumor size >4 cm was a predictive factor for recurrence, and that margin status and lymph node metastasis were predictive factors for survival.
The treatment of recurrences of cervical carcinoma consists of surgery, and of radiation and chemotherapy, or the combination of different modalities taking into consideration the type of primary therapy, the site of recurrence, the disease-free interval, the patient symptoms, performance status, and the degree to which any given treatment might be beneficial.
The video-game intervention significantly improved treatment adherence and indicators of cancer-related self-efficacy and knowledge in adolescents and young adults who were undergoing cancer therapy. The findings support current efforts to develop effective video-game interventions for education and training in health care.
Criteria were given the highest ratings where evidence existed, and these were retained. Gaps in research were highlighted. Developers, users, and purchasers of patient decision aids now have a checklist for appraising quality. An instrument for measuring quality of decision aids is being developed.
The intervention had a dampening effect on the upward trajectory of substance use, a path that is well-known to increase with age for both genders in the general population. This short, five-hour program for improving decision making and affecting substance use of teen survivors shows promise; however, a larger sample is needed to enhance findings.
Despite the considerable interest in applying SDM clinically, little research regarding its effectiveness has been done to date. It has been argued that SDM is particularly suitable for long-term decisions, especially in the context of a chronic illness, and when the intervention contains more than one session. Our results show that under such circumstances, SDM can be an effective method of reaching a treatment agreement. Evidence for the effectiveness of SDM in the context of other types of decisions, or in general, is still inconclusive. Future studies of SDM should probably focus on long-term decisions.
There are difficulties in managing communication with young people who have a chronic, life threatening illness. Health professionals need to be aware of how the social positioning of young people (relative to adults) and the executive role of parents can contribute to the marginalisation of young people and hamper the development of successful relationships between themselves and young patients.
Serum from patients receiving propofol/paravertebral anaesthesia for breast cancer surgery inhibited proliferation, but not migration, of ER-MDA-MB-231 cells in vitro, to a greater extent than that from patients receiving sevoflurane/opioid anaesthesia-analgesia. This implies that anaesthetic technique alters the serum molecular milieu in ways that may affect breast cancer cell function, possibly by altering anaesthetic and opioid drug administration and resultant pain scores.
This retrospective analysis suggests that paravertebral anesthesia and analgesia for breast cancer surgery reduces the risk of recurrence or metastasis during the initial years of follow-up. Prospective trials evaluating the effects of regional analgesia and morphine sparing on cancer recurrence seem warranted.
Epidural analgesia with a combination of local anesthetic and opioid improves patient comfort. However, this type of analgesia does not decrease the incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, does not reduce the length of the hospital stay, and carries the risk of complications from episodic systemic hypotension.
This retrospective analysis suggests that treatment of small HCC by RFA under general anesthesia is associated with reduced risk of cancer recurrence. No effect of anesthetic technique on overall survival is detected. Prospective, randomized trials to evaluate this association are warranted.
The effect of anesthetic and postoperative analgesic techniques on perioperative outcome varies with the type of operation performed. Overall, epidural analgesia provides better postoperative pain relief. Epidural anesthesia and epidural analgesia improve the overall outcome and shorten the intubation time and intensive care stay in patients undergoing abdominal aortic operations.
Minimizing postoperative immunosuppression seems feasible, may limit recurrence, and should be introduced into the broader array of considerations when planning oncological surgeries. In the short run, physicians could try to avoid immunosuppressive anesthetic approaches, inadvertent hypothermia, excessive blood transfusions, and untended postoperative pain. When feasible, minimally invasive surgery should be considered. In the long run, clinical trials should evaluate prophylactic measures, including perioperative immunostimulation and several antagonists to cytokines and hormones specified herein.
Using RT-PCR for the detection of CEA mRNA is feasible and may be a promising tool for early detection of micrometastatic circulating tumor cells in CRC patients. CRC patients expressing positive CEA mRNA in peripheral blood have a significantly higher risk of postoperative metastasis. Nevertheless, confirmation of CEA mRNA as a prognostic predictive factor requires the continuation of patient follow-up.
General anesthesia with epidural analgesia was associated with a reduced risk of clinical cancer progression. However, no significant difference was found between general anesthesia plus postoperative ketorolac-morphine analgesia and general anesthesia plus intraoperative and postoperative thoracic epidural analgesia in biochemical recurrence-free survival, cancer-specific survival, or overall survival.
Molecular detection of both CEA and cytokeratin 20 mRNA in mesenteric venous blood may be of prognostic value for patients with colorectal carcinoma. Molecular detection in the peripheral blood at surgery suggests that hematogenic tumor cell dissemination is a common and early event and that surgical manipulation enhances this release of tumor cells into the circulation.
The diminished proinflammatory cytokine response observed in patients treated by LDFA and IDFA suggests that although more stable immune function can be achieved by those methods in comparison with SDFA, it is recommendable to apply IDFA to avoid the side effects that might be observed using LDFA method.
Inherited genetic factors make a minor contribution to susceptibility to most types of neoplasms. This finding indicates that the environment has the principal role in causing sporadic cancer. The relatively large effect of heritability in cancer at a few sites suggests major gaps in our knowledge of the genetics of cancer.
Human gut GVHD after reduced-intensity allogeneic HSCT is associated with monocyte cytokine secretion initially involving IL-1alpha, followed by TNF-alpha. Serial measurement of monocyte cytokines, in particular, TNF-alpha, by IC-FCM may represent a noninvasive method for GVHD monitoring, potentially allowing the identification of patients appropriate for early-intervention strategies.
New experimental and therapeutic trials based on the blockade of costimulatory molecules, as well as on generation and infusion of either regulatory or nonimmunogenic cells, have been recently proposed for inducing alloantigen-specific tolerance.The achievements obtained in understanding the mechanisms of unresponsiveness toward non-self antigens are fundamental prerequisites for successful allogeneic transplants, and they could open a new exciting era of specific, immunosuppressive therapies.
Patients with gallbladder cancer differed from control subjects in race, body mass, physician-diagnosed typhoid, and certain dietary patterns. These findings may provide useful clues to the pathogenesis of gallbladder cancer, but given the number of analyses performed, additional cases need to be studied.
Gemcitabine monotherapy showed modest efficacy with manageable toxicity in patients with biliary tract cancer. These results could be useful as reference data for optimizing treatment strategies and planning future clinical trials in patients with advanced biliary tract cancer.
As compared with gemcitabine alone, cisplatin plus gemcitabine was associated with a significant survival advantage without the addition of substantial toxicity. Cisplatin plus gemcitabine is an appropriate option for the treatment of patients with advanced biliary cancer. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Our data suggest that UGI and EGD are effective for diagnosing duodenal carcinoma. Survival is improved by curative resection and is not compromised by a wide local excision instead of a pancreaticoduodenectomy for lesions of the third and fourth portion. We recommend that adjuvant chemotherapy be considered for stage III disease, because distant failure is the predominant pattern of failure in this group.
These findings demonstrate that small-bowel tumors are difficult to diagnose because of delayed presentation, nonspecific signs and symptoms, and lack of accurate diagnostic studies. If the overall survival of patients with small-bowel tumors is to be improved, clinicians must have a high index of suspicion and be willing to perform exploratory celiotomy early.
Resectability and presence of distant metastatic disease are the strongest determinants of outcome for patients with duodenal adenocarcinoma. Staging and nodal status offer little prognostic information and nodal positivity should not preclude resection. As patients have symptoms similar to those of pancreatic adenocarcinoma but have an outlook more comparable to gastric adenocarcinoma, a vigorous approach to resection is justified.
Even though those effects may not be attributed to the intervention alone, the analysis of the data and the patients' subjective statements help to reveal therapeutic factors and process characteristics of dance/movement therapy within inpatient rehabilitation.
In neutropenic patients treated for haematological malignancies with or without autologous stem cell transplantation, fluconazole and itraconazole in low doses result in a similar low frequency of fungal disease. Fluconazole may be the preferable drug because of the smaller number of capsules and lack of need for timing relative to meals.
Our results support the potential of fluconazole to reduce oropharyngeal colonization by Candida albicans, however, we did not show prophylaxis of oral candidiasis or systemic candidiasis. These findings and reports of fluconazole-resistant candidal species and a rising number of cases of infection as a result of Candida krusei indicate the need for further studies of prophylaxis of candidal infection in patients who are anticipated to develop profound neutropenia.
Our findings suggest that there is a high rate of fungal colonization in children receiving remission induction therapy for acute leukemia and lymphoma. Limiting the use of antibiotics and instituting antifungal chemoprophylaxis may decrease the rate, while the early initiation of empiric antifungal therapy in patients with fever and suspected mycotic colonization may increase survival in these patients.
Complementary medicine use is common in patients with IBD. Differences in the determinants of and reasons for CAM use noted between the present Internet sample and a gastroenterology clinic sample suggest that conclusions from the present study and from previous studies based only on clinic samples provide a limited view of CAM use by people with IBD. More comprehensive assessments are needed.
Cancer patients may benefit from interventions (eg, patient education, improvements in physician-patient communication, and psychologic therapy) to facilitate treatment decision making through increased understanding of conventional and CAM treatments and to identify barriers to treatment for individual patients.
Scutellaria baicalensis strongly inhibits cell growth in all cancer cell lines tested. However, prostate and breast cancer cells (PC-3, LNCaP, and MCF-7) are slightly more sensitive than other type of cancer cells. It also inhibits PGE(2) production, indicating that suppression of tumor cell growth may be due to its ability to inhibit COX-2 activity. This study supports the notion of using Scutellaria baicalensis as a novel anticancer agent to treat various cancers.
Increased experience with enoxaparin use in neonates in the past decade has indicated higher doses to achieve accepted target anti-factor Xa values. The long-term use of indwelling catheters (Insuflon catheter) for enoxaparin administration may need to be reevaluated in ELBW infants. Suggested starting doses of enoxaparin are 1.7 mg/kg q12 h for term neonates and 2.0 mg/kg q12 h for preterm neonates if there is no considerable bleeding risk. However, further prospective studies are needed to validate an increased initial dose of enoxaparin.
Reteplase can restore patency to occluded CVCs in a pediatric population. Reteplase appears to have comparable efficacy with alteplase, but reteplase may require shorter dwell times. A prospective, randomized, clinical trial is warranted to determine whether reteplase is as effective as alteplase in restoring patency to occluded CVCs.
In patients with suspected pulmonary embolism, multidetector CTA-CTV has a higher diagnostic sensitivity than does CTA alone, with similar specificity. The predictive value of either CTA or CTA-CTV is high with a concordant clinical assessment, but additional testing is necessary when the clinical probability is inconsistent with the imaging results.
Like other multicomponent acellular pertussis vaccines, the Lederle/Takeda DTaP vaccine demonstrated good efficacy against mild and typical pertussis due to B pertussis infections. Interestingly, it also may have some efficacy against B parapertussis. Based on the results of this trial, the vaccine was licensed in the United States in December 1996 for all 5 doses of the currently recommended immunization schedule in this country.
Patients with resectable esophageal carcinoma who underwent preoperative chemotherapy and obtained a pathologic complete response had a significantly improved long term survival. Major efforts should be undertaken to identify patients before neoadjuvant treatments who are likely to respond.
There was a gross overestimation of treatment effect in the studies using HC as compared to RCTs, despite the use of cisplatinum-based chemotherapy in both groups. The meta-analysis of RCTs reveal no significant survival benefit from cisplatinum-based adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy in esophageal cancer.
Compared with surgery alone, neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery is associated with a lower rate of esophageal resection but a higher rate of complete (R0) resection. It does not increase treatment related mortality. This meta-analysis did not demonstrate a survival benefit for the combination of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery.
Weight loss alone does not identify the full effect of cachexia on physical function and is not a prognostic variable. The 3-factor profile (weight loss, reduced food intake, and systemic inflammation) identifies patients with both adverse function and prognosis. Shortened survival applies particularly to cachectic patients with localized disease, thereby reinforcing the need for early intervention.
Findings confirmed that cancer cachexia has far reaching implications for patients and their families, extending beyond physical problems into psychological, social and emotional issues. This insight is a critical first step in the development of more responsive care for these clients.
Results of non-randomised studies sometimes, but not always, differ from results of randomised studies of the same intervention. Non-randomised studies may still give seriously misleading results when treated and control groups appear similar in key prognostic factors. Standard methods of case-mix adjustment do not guarantee removal of bias. Residual confounding may be high even when good prognostic data are available, and in some situations adjusted results may appear more biased than unadjusted results. Although many quality assessment tools exist and have been used for appraising non-randomised studies, most omit key quality domains. Healthcare policies based upon non-randomised studies or systematic reviews of non-randomised studies may need re-evaluation if the uncertainty in the true evidence base was not fully appreciated when policies were made. The inability of case-mix adjustment methods to compensate for selection bias and our inability to identify non-randomised studies that are free of selection bias indicate that non-randomised studies should only be undertaken when RCTs are infeasible or unethical. Recommendations for further research include: applying the resampling methodology in other clinical areas to ascertain whether the biases described are typical; developing or refining existing quality assessment tools for non-randomised studies; investigating how quality assessments of non-randomised studies can be incorporated into reviews and the implications of individual quality features for interpretation of a review's results; examination of the reasons for the apparent failure of case-mix adjustment methods; and further evaluation of the role of the propensity score.
A better knowledge of the natural history of PC is needed, in view of the many Phase I, II, and III trials currently being conducted to evaluate aggressive multimodal therapeutic approaches to treating patients with PC from non-gynecologic malignancies.
Patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis have a uniformly poor prognosis. However, in select patients, the natural history of this disease condition may be altered by using the multimodality approach of cytoreductive surgery and intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy. These results require confirmation in prospective randomized studies.
Peritonectomy procedures and preparation of the abdomen for early postoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy were described. The author has used the cytoreductive approach to achieve long-term, disease-free survival in selected patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis, peritoneal sarcomatosis or mesothelioma.
This study reported on 30 patients who underwent cytoreductive surgery and perioperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy for colorectal peritoneal carcinomatosis. Patients with mucinous tumour had relatively more extensive intraperitoneal disease. Non-mucinous colorectal adenocarcinoma, PCI < or =13, and complete cytoreduction were associated with an improved survival.
As most failures in Ewing's sarcoma are systemic, improved EFS requires more effective systemic chemotherapy. Adequate IF radiotherapy requires treatment to appropriate volumes as defined by MRI imaging and full radiation doses. Pretreatment review of radiologic images with a musculoskeletal radiologist to determine appropriate tumor volumes, as well as use of conformal radiotherapy techniques are important for improved outcome.
The magnitude of risk of solid SMNs was modest after treatment for malignant bone tumors. However, radiation-related solid SMNs will increase with longer follow-up. Because nearly 33% of patients die from their disease, recurrence remains the most significant problem. The development of improved therapies with fewer long-term consequences is paramount. Follow-up should focus on monitoring for both recurrence of primary malignancies and development of SMNs.
Overall survival and CSS were not statistically compromised, but we observed an increased risk of relapse and local failure in patients treated with RT alone, thereby justifying a transition toward primary surgical management in suitable patients. However, despite an adverse risk profile, patients treated with RT alone had similar long-term amputation-free survival and demonstrated comparable functional outcomes. Poor results observed in Ewing's of the femur mandate innovative surgical and RT strategies.
Aerobic exercise training did not improve QoL or fatigue beyond the established benefits of DAL but it did result in favorable improvements in exercise capacity and a more rapid Hb response with lower dosing requirements. Our results may be useful to clinicians despite the more recent restrictions on the indications for ESAs.
Both fatigue and emotional morbidity are integral components of chronic fatigue syndromes. The demographic and psychiatric associations of CFS in clinical studies are at least partly determined by selection biases. Given that triggering and perpetuating factors may differ in CFS, studies that examine the similarities and differences between chronic fatigue syndromes and psychiatric disorder should consider both the stage of the illness and the research setting.
(1) Trimodality therapy is feasible in selected patients with MPM and has an acceptable operative mortality rate. (2) Our current pre-operative staging based on CT/MRI looks rather inaccurate and needs to be improved. (3) The high rate of post-surgical N2 patients or with diffusion to the inferior surface of the diaphragm may suggest the use of routine mediastinoscopy and laparoscopy for a more appropriate patient selection.
(1) Multimodality therapy including extrapleural pneumonectomy is feasible in selected patients with malignant pleural mesotheliomas, (2) pre-resectional evaluation of extrapleural nodes may select patients for radical therapy, (3) microscopic resection margins affect long-term survival, highlighting the need for further investigation of locoregional control, and (4) patients with epithelial, margin-negative, extrapleural node-negative resection had extended survival.
Intensity-modulated RT treatment for mesothelioma after EPP and adjuvant chemotherapy resulted in a high rate of fatal pneumonitis when standard dose parameters were used. We therefore recommend caution in the utilization of this technique. Our data suggest that with IMRT, metrics such as V5 and MLD should be considered in addition to V20 to determine tolerance levels in future patients.
This study is the first to show that ORP has a negative impact on body image and cosmesis as compared with LRP. Functional outcome, QOL, and morbidity are similar for the two approaches. The advantages of a long-lasting improved body image and cosmesis for this relatively young patient population may compensate for the longer operating times and higher costs, particularly for women.
Laparoscopic rectal cancer surgery results in an earlier postoperative recovery and a resected specimen that is oncologically comparable to open surgery. Results from randomized trials reporting long-term outcomes such as cancer recurrence (local and metastatic) and 5-year survival are eagerly awaited.
Oncologic surgical principles were respected. Long-term outcome after laparoscopic resection of rectal cancer was comparable with that after conventional resection. We should wait to draw conclusive scientific statements until the completion of ongoing international randomized controlled trials.
The learning curve for performing colorectal resections was approximately 30 procedures in this study, based on a decline in operating time, intraoperative complications, and conversion rate. Learning was also extended to clinical care because it was appreciated that patients could be discharged to their homes more quickly.
Conversion rates for laparoscopic colectomy are dependent on a multitude of factors that require appropriate adjustment including the learning curve (operative experience) for individual surgeons. The laparoscopic model described can be used as the basis for performance monitoring between or within institutions.
We conclude that 1) hepatic resection is effective in select patients with colorectal metastases; 2) adequate resection margin and adjuvant regional chemotherapy can improve outcome; and 3) microscopic fibrous pseudocapsule may offer additional postoperative information as an independent prognostic factor.
Poorer clinical conditions with special regard to anemia are more frequent among patients of 75 years and older and this finding may lead to an increase in operative mortality when compared to younger patients. Even though, senior patients with colorectal cancer should not be denied surgical and adjuvant therapy on account of age alone since cancer-related survival remains comparable to younger patients' results.
Hepatic resection for metastases from noncolorectal carcinoma is safe and feasible, with a relatively low incidence of intra- or postoperative complications and a short hospital stay. Although it achieves good results in terms of survival in patients suffering from neuroendocrine metastases, it could also have a cytoreductive effect for other tumors.
Radical oophorectomy with primary stapled anastomosis is an effective technique for resection of locally advanced ovarian cancer and contributes significantly to a maximal cytoreductive surgical effort. The associated morbidity is acceptable, and protective intestinal diversion appears unnecessary.
All methods of vascular control appeared equivalent with respect to limiting blood loss and transfusion requirements while providing adequate surgical margins. The highest rates of blood requirements and complications were noted in the total vascular isolation group, which corresponded to the highest incidence of complex resections. The Longmire clamp group incurred the lowest incidence of complications and resulted in identical surgical margins. The application of vascular control is beneficial to surgeons during hepatic resection, but the method of control should be selected based on the location and complexity of resection required and preference of the individual surgeon.
In patients with small malignant tumors, located in the left lateral segments or in the anterior segments of the right liver, laparoscopic resection is feasible and safe. The complication rate is low, except in patients with HCC on cirrhotic liver. By using laparoscopic ultrasound, a 1-cm free surgical margin should be routinely obtained. The late outcome needs to be evaluated in expert centers.
stricter indication than earlier is necessary for administration of blood transfusion to patients with rectal cancer to decrease the risk of transfusion-transmitted infections and to avoid the possible immunosuppressive effect of the blood. Packed red cells is preferable. Decreasing volume of perioperative homologous transfusion by improving surgical technique and clinical application of autologous transfusion should be considered.
These results indicate that hematopoiesis in anemic patients with colorectal cancer can be stimulated by erythropoietin; however, clinical efficacy is to be expected only in selected patients with high iron availability, which calls for further studies combining erythropoietin and parenteral iron application.
In spite of its aggressive aspect, total pelvic exenteration seems justified in rectal carcinoma when extended to the urinary tract, when it causes major functional disorders, when there are no detectable metastases, and when the tumor has no posterior or lateral fixation. Local tumoral evolution can usually be controlled by pelvic exenteration but prolongation of survival is not demonstrated.
APR is a surgical procedure associated with significant morbidity but low postoperative surgical mortality. The main cause of morbidity was perineal would infection influenced by administration of PRT +/- chemotherapy and age over 55 years. However, this treatment association is linked with low rate of local recurrence.
Our preliminary results suggest that EBRT can render a significant number of patients biochemically free of disease and can cause complete resolution of clinically palpable disease after initial cryosurgery. The results also showed that EBRT can be given without excessive morbidity. EBRT should be considered as a treatment option in these potentially curable cases.
For carefully selected patients undergoing restorative proctocolectomy with ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, omission of diverting ileostomy is a safe procedure that does not lead to an increase in septic complications or mortality. Quality of life and functional results are similar to those who undergo ileal pouch-anal anastomosis with diversion, provided that certain selection factors are considered.
Surgical technique had a significant impact on bowel function following low anterior resection and sigmoid colectomy for cancer. When high ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery is abandoned and the pelvic autonomic nerve is preserved by careful technique, postoperative bowel dysfunction in patients with rectosigmoid colon cancer can be minimized.
Chronic rectal bleeding is a sequelae of high-dose conformal treatment of prostate cancer. Grade 2 morbidity responds to medication or limited coagulation (< or = 2) in 90% of patients. Grade 3 morbidity responds to medication and multiple coagulations (> or = 3) in 75% of patients. The chronicity of Grade 3 morbidity is illustrated by a 10-month median duration for response to treatment, with a range of response extending to 34 months. Nonresponders to treatment have continued to bleed up to 35 months after the third coagulation. Appropriate shielding of the rectal mucosa limiting dose to < 72 Gy is required to avoid a high incidence of these complications, as dose is the only significant variable associated with rectal bleeding.
In patients with intermediate- and high-risk stage Ta and T1 urothelial bladder cancer, intravesical BCG with or without INH is superior to intravesical epirubicin not only for time to first recurrence but also for time to distant metastases, overall survival, and disease-specific survival. The benefit of BCG is not limited to just high-risk patients; intermediate-risk patients also benefit from BCG.
Intravesical BCG with or without isoniazid provokes more side effects than epirubicin. Prophylactic isoniazid does not reduce the side effects of BCG, while BCG with or without isoniazid prolongs the time to first recurrence compared to epirubicin. Further followup is required before long-term conclusions can be made for progression-to-muscle invasive disease and survival.
Our results confirm that a statistically and clinically significant PSA increase is registered during immunotherapy but not during chemotherapy. PSA elevation in patients treated with intravesical BCG is self-limited and prostate biopsies are not mandatory in these patients and could be delayed at 12 months, while monitoring PSA. On the other side, prostate biopsies are mandatory in patients with PSA abnormal elevation during chemotherapy.
For both patients with single and with multiple tumors, the percentage of patients with a recurrence in the bladder at the first follow-up cystoscopy after TUR varies substantially between institutions and cannot be explained by the factors that were assessed. It is suggested that the quality of the TUR performed by the individual surgeons may be responsible.
The present study showed no statistically significant differences in terms of disease-free time and recurrence rate between high risk patients with nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer who had undergone perioperative epirubicin instillation plus delayed bacillus Calmette-Guerin and those who had undergone delayed bacillus Calmette-Guerin alone.
No significant difference in CR rates could be demonstrated with intravesical instillations of epirubicin or BCG. Time to recurrence was significantly longer in patients treated with BCG after having achieved a CR. More CIS recurrences were found in patients treated with epirubicin. For time to progression and survival longer followup is warranted. Side effects were more frequent in patients on BCG.
This analysis indicated that there are two patterns of tumor recurrence of superficial bladder carcinoma after TUR, namely, early phase and late phase. Intravesical chemotherapy may be effective mainly in reducing the hazard for recurrence in the early phase.
RC provides excellent survival rates in patients with high-grade NMIBC. Adjuvant therapy with BCG after a complete TUR of the bladder may be an effective treatment for high-grade NMIBC. If a conservative treatment is preferred to RC, co-existence of a concomitant CIS should be considered with caution.
Epirubicin appears to be effective in preventing the recurrence of superficial bladder cancer. Morphologic features, patient age and size of the tumor were considered independent risk factors. The risk of recurrence for each tumor should be taken into consideration when the intravesical adjuvant therapy protocol is being selected.
Although intravesical therapy is generally safe, local and systemic side effects occur and it is important to be aware of them. Identifying complications early, preventing them when possible and managing them efficiently are critical. Most complications are preventable. Knowing the risks and benefits of chemotherapeutic and immunotherapeutic agents may decrease the short-term and long-term toxicity of these agents. Adherence to guidelines may prevent inappropriate use, which can lead to unnecessary complications, resulting in bladder dysfunction and even cystectomy.
Investigation of the concept of chemoimmunotherapy up to now lacked evidence of advantages for this approach. Preventive regulatory measures directed to decrease tobacco smoking and some occupational exposures to aromatic amines may contribute to the reduction of bladder cancer. Bladder cancer is a multistep process making this tumor a candidate for chemoprevention. To date, retinoids are the best-studied chemopreventive agents achieving mixed clinical results in superficial bladder tumors. The potent apoptosis-inducing retinoid fenretinide is currently in the phase III trials. The follow-up of patients with all types of superficial tumors must be lifelong; unfortunately cystoscopy cannot be replaced yet by the control of any markers present or not in the urine. There is hope this may change in the near future.
Intravesical epirubicin has shown efficacy in preventing disease recurrence after TUR of superficial bladder cancer. In comparison with equivalent dosages of doxorubicin, the efficacy of epirubicin for this indication is generally similar, and the tolerability profile may be more favourable. Epirubicin is less effective than BCG as intravesical prophylaxis in patients at high risk of recurrence after TUR; the relative efficacy of epirubicin and BCG after TUR in patients at intermediate risk is not yet clear. Intravesical epirubicin is generally tolerated better than BCG. Intravesical epirubicin may be used as prophylaxis after TUR in patients who are at low or intermediate risk of recurrence of superficial bladder cancer.
In the absence of any visual tumors, TUR and deep biopsy at the site of the scar of the marker lesion only rarely revealed (3 out of 110) the histological presence of a tumour. Therefore, this biopsy can be omitted in new marker lesion protocols in patient with Ta-T1, G1 G2 papillary superficial bladder tumours at intermediate risk for recurrence and low risk for progression.
Cancer bladder is a high-cost illness due, in particular, to its heterogeneity in presentation and high rate of recurrences which makes any evaluation underestimated. The possibility of containing costs is essentially related to optimization of the follow-up and to the development of optimal therapeutic procedures which could lead to a reduction in the number of recurrences.
The adoption of a correct strategy of intravesical metaphylaxis with BCG allows to spare cistectomy in up to 60% of the patients with high grade superficial bladder carcinoma and the optimisation of treatment protocols will lead to even more effective results. However this tumour still demands the highest level of attention in the follow up and in the case of recurrence primary conservative treatment with BCG should be promptly converted to radical surgical treatment considering that the development of less invasive surgical procedures has reduced the impact on the patient's quality of life
Avoidance of tobacco smoking and incriminated occupational exposures, habitual intake of fresh fruits and vegetables, and prevention and control of urinary tract infections should be recommended for bladder cancer prevention. Further studies are required to assess the role of genetic polymorphisms and their modifying effect of lifestyle risk factors for bladder cancer occurrence and to evaluate the benefit of bladder cancer screening, particularly in those at high risk.
Our study demonstrates the high progression potential of stage Ta grade 3 tumors, since nearly 50% recurred and 25% progressed to invasive disease. These results may be closely compared with the results of previous trials of stage T1 grade 3 disease. We suggest that recurrence should be detected at an early stage using long-term followup with strict observance of the surveillance protocols during a minimum 5-year tumor-free period.
Many patients undergoing surgery for gastro-oesophageal cancer have major comorbid disease, which strongly influences their risk of postoperative death. Technical complications do not seem to be influenced by preoperative factors but reflect the extent of surgery and perhaps surgical judgment. Detailed prospective multicentre cooperative audit, with appropriate risk adjustment, is fundamental in the evaluation of cancer care and must be properly resourced.
Lymph node ratio and lymph node status are the most important prognostic factors in patients with resected gastric cancer. In experienced centers, extended lymph node dissection does not increase the mortality or morbidity rate of resection for gastric cancer but markedly improves long-term survival in patients with stage II tumors. This effect appears to be independent of the phenomenon of stage migration.
Our data suggest that TOR is an efficient and well-tolerated agent for the therapy of postmenopausal women with hormonal positive receptors advanced breast cancer, and must be considered an alternative to TAM as first line therapy for ER+ advanced breast cancer patients and as well as an adjuvant treatment.
A single fixed dose of 6 mg of pegfilgrastim given once per cycle of R-CHOP-14 is effective in supporting neutrophil recovery to allow two-weekly drug administration in previously untreated elderly patients with DLBCL. However, close monitoring for infectious complications is mandatory in this patient population.
The distribution of cases by anatomic site was consistent with a hypothesis of rightward migration of colon carcinoma. Colon and rectal carcinomas in African-Americans were reported in more advanced stages and with corresponding decreases in survival rates. Some patterns of nonoptimal diagnostic use were noted. The increasing use of sphincter-sparing surgical alternatives for carcinoma of the rectum was evident. Adjuvant therapy was not widely used during this period. This study suggests evolving patterns of evaluation, increased preservation of continence, and improved but varying survival among ethnic groups. It further suggests that survival as measured across these 943 hospitals may be lower than that attained at some individual centers.
CAM is commonly used by New Zealand cancer patients, who often use multiple therapies, not only during conventional treatment, but also without consultation with their oncologist. This lack of open communication about CAM between patients and medical staff may prevent identification not only of potential harmful effects, but also of positive and negative drug interactions between CAM and conventional therapies.
These findings suggest that the efficacy of systematic lymphadenectomy, defined as removal of more than about 10 lymph nodes, is limited for improving overall survival in patients with low-risk endometrial cancer, whereas it is efficient to increase overall survival in patients with intermediate- or high-risk endometrial cancer.
COMT Val158Met was seen to show a decreased risk for endometrial cancer in Asian population. CYP1B1 Leu432Val and Asn453Ser polymorphisms demonstrated an increased and decreased risk for endometrial cancer, respectively. Further large and comprehensive studies in various populations with more detailed individual data are needed to confirm our findings.
Although SLN biopsy has shown good diagnostic performance in endometrial cancer, such performance should be interpreted with caution because of significant small study effects. Current evidence is not yet sufficient to establish the true performance of SLN biopsy in endometrial cancer.
This schedule, similar to that for the treatment of AML patients, with early BMT included, did not prove to be a satisfactory approach to the treatment of most adult ALL patients, although CR was achieved in 78% of cases. In this study, no major improvement was obtained with rGM-CSF therapy.
Incomplete reporting of outcomes within published articles of randomised trials is common and is associated with statistical non-significance. The medical literature therefore represents a selective and biased subset of study outcomes, and trial protocols should be made publicly available.
The current findings demonstrated that allogeneic HSCT improves the outcome of adult patients with high-risk ALL. Although these analyses were based on abstracted data, the results indicated that allogeneic HSCT should be considered for such patients if a suitable donor is available.
Among patients who received topical imiquimod with vs without tazarotene, 22% (8 of 37) of lesions vs 36% (15 of 42) of lesions showed residual LM on staged excisions. Pretreating LM with imiquimod, 5%, cream may decrease surgical defect sizes; however, total reliance on topical imiquimod as an alternative to surgery may put the patient at increased risk of a local recurrence.
The technique described herein for the treatment of LM and LMM provides a long-term disease-free survival of 95%. The cure rate is greater than that reported for standard excision and is similar to that for other margin-control techniques. To our knowledge, this is the largest reported study and has the longest follow-up for this excision method for LM and LMM.
Considerable variability exists in the clinical concept and management of MIS. Dermoscopy is underutilized. The true nature of the evolution of MIS is unknown. Surgical margins and depth of excision need to be standardized to help dermatologists manage disease. Further research in the specific area of MIS is warranted to develop clear guidelines in the management and prevention of further disease.
Compared to standard excision, methods that employ surgical margin control offer superior cure rates for LM and should be utilized when available. Total peripheral margin assessment using staged excisions and permanent sections is a simple and effective alternative to MMS for institutions that lack the resources for intraoperative frozen section analysis.
Use of the square technique in the management of lentigo maligna and lentigo maligna melanoma improves the certainty of peripheral margin control before definitive excision. Immediate reconstruction can be performed, thereby avoiding temporizing procedures or open wounds and providing for optimal aesthetic and functional results.
A propensity to lentigines is a stronger predictor of LMM, whereas high nevus propensity is a stronger predictor of SSM. Skin cancer history appears to determine LMM risk only, whereas the number of lifetime sunburns determines SSM only. Prevention strategies could be tailored differently given these distinctive points of difference.
A trend toward lower recurrence rates with surgical excision and carbon dioxide laser ablation was identified, but the results were not statistically significant. Carbon dioxide laser ablation may have a role as an alternative treatment for lentigo maligna among patients in whom standard treatments, such as surgical excision and radiation therapy, are declined or carry significant morbidity.
The perimeter technique is a simple method of margin-controlled excision of LM. The main advantage is that all margins are examined with permanent sections. The main drawback is that multiple operative sessions are required to complete the procedure. This technique does not require specific Mohs training and is therefore applicable to non-Mohs surgeons.
These results indicate that ketorolac supplemented with small doses of morphine is associated with a lower incidence of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus compared to morphine alone. This combination should be considered where immunosuppression from operation and administration of morphine is undesirable.
Orally administered Gastrografin is safe and has a therapeutic role in adhesive, partial small-bowel obstruction. It significantly prompts the resolution of the obstructive episodes and shortens hospital stay. However, further studies are necessary to confirm the significance of our observation that it may reduce the need for operation.
It is possible to conduct a randomized trial of psychological interventions in palliative care but there is considerable attrition from physical morbidity and mortality. Nurses can learn to integrate basic CBT methods into their clinical practice. This training may be associated with better outcomes for symptoms of anxiety.
The addition of interferon alfa to a regimen containing doxorubicin increased the rate of response, event-free survival, and overall survival in patients with advanced follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, without serious toxicity, although some patients were unable to tolerate the side effects.
The cytomorphology of small-to-intermediate cell lymphomas, including MCL, follicular lymphoma, and marginal zone/mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma, can show overlapping cytomorphologic features with one another as well as with reactive lymphoid proliferations. In selected samples in which specific classification is not possible or when confirmation is required on a small sample size, molecular analysis and cytogenetics may be helpful in arriving at an unambiguous cytodiagnosis and subclassification. Distinction of MCL from other lymphomas is important, because the clinical course is aggressive, and response to conventional chemotherapy is poor. This study showed that the detection of t(11;14) by FISH can be performed rapidly and easily on archival cytologic material for the molecular diagnosis of MCL.
Our results suggest that characteristic properties of the microenvironment in follicular lymphoma determines the responses to essentially different chemotherapeutic approaches. These data may provide an explanation for the highly conflicting results on immunohistochemical markers and the prognostic role of the microenvironment in follicular lymphoma reported thus far and lay the basis for the development of predictive assays to tailor treatment in patients with follicular lymphoma.
Mantle cell lymphoma, a B-cell lymphoma now recognized in the 1994 Revised European-American Classification of Lymphoid Neoplasms (REAL) classification, is a relatively aggressive lymphoma with a poor prognosis. Its characteristic t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation has a role in oncogenesis and has been exploited for molecular diagnostic tests, but these tests vary in sensitivity, specificity, and ease of use. Improved immunohistochemical tests are sufficient to confirm the diagnosis in most cases. Conventional cytogenetics and molecular diagnostic tests for t(11;14)-Southern blot and polymerase chain reaction analysis-may be helpful in selected cases, but are laborious or of limited sensitivity. Other methods, such as fluorescence in situ hybridization, need further development to provide faster, more sensitive diagnosis.
Deferasirox is effective for reducing iron burden with a defined, clinically manageable safety profile in patients with various transfusion-dependent anaemias. There were no disease-specific adverse events. Once differences in transfusional iron intake are accounted for, dose-dependent changes in LIC or serum ferritin are similar in MDS and other disease groups.
Mortality is higher in heavily iron-overloaded patients, with liver and cardiac dysfunction being the primary cause. Daily/continuous chelation therapy was effective at reducing iron burden and improving organ function. Chelation therapy should be initiated once serum ferritin levels exceed 1000 ng/mL.
We found no clear evidence of bias in the publication process that occurs after abstract acceptance. We were unable to assess bias in abstract submission or acceptance. "Interobserver agreement" was the only characteristic statistically associated with publication. Clinical utility of results and other study characteristics did not predict publication. Diagnostic abstracts often did not report many relevant methodological aspects.
Data for patients diagnosed with low-grade gliomas revealed increasing survival times over the past 25 years with a subset of patients surviving for decades. Differences in survival by race, gender, histology, and first course of treatment were appreciated. These data suggested that the clinical course of low-grade glioma for some patients may be more encouraging than previously perceived and that the identification of this group of patients may allow refinement of current treatment protocols.
The results of the present study allow, for the first time, quantification of the contribution of intraoperative DES in LGG resection. Indeed, the use of this method leads to the extension of indications of LGG surgery within eloquent areas; to a decrease in the risk of sequelae; and to improvement of the quality of tumour resection, with an impact on survival.
Exercise did not affect quality of life in either recently diagnosed or post-treatment breast cancer survivors; however this may be due in part to relatively high baseline functioning among participants in both studies. Strategies for future research include limiting enrollment to survivors who report reduced quality of life on screening questionnaires and targeting survivor subgroups known to be at particular risk for quality of life impairment.
Findings from this study will provide useful information for investigators who are conducting exercise trials in cancer populations, clinicians who are treating women diagnosed with breast cancer, and exercise professionals who are developing community-based exercise programs for cancer survivors.
The results of the current study suggest that moderate intensity aerobic exercise appears to maintain erythrocyte levels during radiation treatment of breast cancer compared with the declines observed in nontraining individuals. These findings suggest a safe, economical method to improve fitness and maintain erythrocytes in women during radiation treatment of breast cancer.
A single-modality R program significantly improved all domains of PSE, and participation in the A program improved the PC subdomain. The combination exercise program did not enhance PSE greater than the single-modality programs. EXSEM was a useful framework for exploring esteem in breast cancer survivors.
This pilot project provides preliminary data supporting the premise that a tailored behaviorally based MQOL intervention for men with biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer is acceptable to men and might reduce prostate cancer specific anxiety and enhance QOL. Further research examining the efficacy of this intervention in a larger randomized trial is warranted.
PA effectively attenuates many of the side effects of ADT and should be recommended to prostate survivors as an alternate therapy. Determining the maintenance of this behavior change will be important for understanding how the long-term benefits of increased activity levels may alleviate the late effects of ADT.
A physical activity behavioural change intervention for gynaecological cancer survivors is feasible in terms of participants' programme adherence and evaluation, and the intervention demonstrates improvements in fatigue. However, confirmation in the form of a larger fully powered RCT is warranted.
Apart from differences in body fat and triglycerides the beneficial effects of exercise are similar in patients on acute or chronic androgen suppression therapy.
For the treatment of patients with BCRL, active resistive exercise with complex decongestive physiotherapy did not cause additional swelling, and it significantly reduced proximal arm volume and helped improve QOL.
The study results demonstrate a high rate of completion and adherence with our PRET program among patients with head and neck cancer. The preliminary findings, although limited, also suggest a potential therapeutic role for resistance exercise as an adjunct to standard physical therapy treatment.
This is the first prospective, randomized controlled trial to report that participation in a home walking program confers a significant benefit in resected PPC patients with regard to fatigue levels, physical functioning, and health-related quality of life.
The Compendium is used globally to quantify the energy cost of PA in adults for surveillance activities, research studies, and, in clinical settings, to write PA recommendations and to assess energy expenditure in individuals. The 2011 Compendium is an update of a system for quantifying the energy cost of adult human PA and is a living document that is moving in the direction of being 100% evidence based.
Physical activity has positive effects on physiology, body composition, physical functions, psychological outcomes, and quality of life in patients after treatment for breast cancer. When patients with cancer other than breast cancer were also included, physical activity was associated with reduced BMI and body weight, increased peak oxygen consumption and peak power output, and improved quality of life.
This comprehensive review of reviews identifies specific components which are associated with increased effectiveness in interventions to promote change in diet and/or physical activity. To maximise the efficiency of programmes for diabetes prevention, practitioners and commissioning organisations should consider including these components.
The review identified that both the TPB and the TTM frameworks include aspects that predicts exercise adherence in cancer patients, and thus contributes to the understanding of motivational factors of change in exercise behaviour in cancer populations. However, the strengths of predictions were relatively weak. More research is needed to identify predictors of greater importance.
The association between immunity to CYP1B1 and response to next salvage therapy was not expected. Because six of the seven patients who had clinical benefit regardless of the nature of salvage therapy had developed immunity to CYP1B1, it seems highly unlikely that this occurred by chance alone. Regardless of the mechanism(s) that induced tumor regression, these findings force us to rethink how the generation of antitumor immunity might be integrated into the treatment of cancer.
Although the uncontrolled design of this study prevents definitive conclusions with respect to subgroups, the data support a relationship between Ab3 response and survival time. Thus, the need for further randomized, controlled clinical trials to establish efficacy of the vaccine ACA125 seems to be indicated.
Our results are discordant with previous studies and those of a clinical trial that claimed peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients vaccinated with peptide-pulsed dendritic cells lysed hTERT(+) tumors. However, our findings are consistent with a previous study that demonstrated that the hTERT:540-548 peptide is cleaved in the proteasome. These results suggest that hTERT:540-548 is not presented on the surfaces of tumor cells in the context of HLA-A*0201 and will not be useful for the immunotherapy of patients with cancer.
The administration of lenograstim after chemotherapy for AML did not decrease the mortality rate at eight weeks among patients over the age of 65 years. The patients who received lenograstim had a significantly higher rate of complete remission than those who received placebo. Nevertheless, the overall survival in the two groups did not differ significantly.
GM-CSF, in the dose and schedule we used, does not stimulate the regrowth of leukemia, but it also does not decrease the severe myelosuppressive consequences of initial chemotherapy or improve the response rate in patients 60 years of age or older with primary AML. It should not be recommended for use in such patients.
Our data suggest that the Mito-FLAG protocol is feasible and can be safely performed with both schedules of Ara-C. In this study the regimens have shown high efficacy and acceptable toxicity in patients with relapsed or refractory AML. We currently examine the importance of bolus versus continuous infusion of Ara-C as part of the Mito-FLAG regimen in a prospective randomized multicenter trial.
Having access to immediate test results through PoCT is associated with the same or better medication adherence compared with having test results provided by a pathology laboratory. PoCT used in general practice can provide general practitioners and patients with timely and complete clinical information, facilitating important self-management behaviours such as medication adherence.
The present study included all hospital medical staff and covered all the available clinical biochemistry tests. This rather simple and low-cost intervention resulted in significant reductions in clinical biochemistry test orders as well as in the ordering of hematological blood tests.
Screening for diabetes using this method, in terms of response rate, is not as effective in a large city setting, particularly in the Asian population. However, the yield of diabetes in the age group 35-64 years compares well to much more expensive and labour intensive approaches and its use in this population in a primary care setting is justified.
The routine implementation of urine antigen detection tests does not carry substantial outcome-related or economic benefits to hospitalised patients with community-acquired pneumonia. Narrowing the antibiotic treatment according to the urine antigen results may in fact be associated with a higher risk of clinical relapse.
This study provides preliminary evidence of interdisciplinary differences in the processes of care employed by primary care NPs and MDs in caring for patients with type 2 diabetes. NPs documented the provision of diabetes education and selected monitoring tests more frequently than MDs; however, these differences were not reflected in 6-month patient outcomes.
Although many cases of malaria are missed outside the formal sector, within it malaria is massively over-diagnosed. This threatens the sustainability of deployment of artemisinin combination treatment, and treatable bacterial diseases are likely to be missed. Use of rapid diagnostic tests, with basic training for clinical staff, did not in itself lead to any reduction in over-treatment for malaria. Interventions to improve clinicians' management of febrile illness are essential but will not be easy.
The majority of treatments for conditions identified by case-finding laboratory tests resulted from the lipid profile. The therapeutic yield of the chemistry panel was low, and the therapeutic yield of the complete blood count, thyroid tests, and urinalysis were all less than 1%. The low therapeutic yield of many routine laboratory tests ordered for case-finding should be provided to patients, physicians, and managed care organizations to set priorities for case-finding and screening.
The prevalence of CKD in the United States in 1999-2004 is higher than it was in 1988-1994. This increase is partly explained by the increasing prevalence of diabetes and hypertension and raises concerns about future increased incidence of kidney failure and other complications of CKD.
Health screenings reduced the CRS in the intervention groups. After 5 years of follow-up, the number of persons at elevated cardiovascular risk was about half that expected, based on the prevalence/proportion in a population not receiving the health checks (the control group). The impact of intervention was higher among at-risk individuals. Consultations about health did not appear to improve the cardiovascular profile of the study population.
Microalbuminuria appears to be common not only in the general population but also in a nondiabetic, nonhypertensive population and is independently associated with increased cardiovascular risk factors and cardio-vascular morbidity. Importantly, some of these associations are present at urinary albumin levels currently considered to be normal. These findings suggest that urinary albumin measurements may be useful in early risk profiling and prevention of cardiovascular disease in the population at large.
Despite contrary evidence, most PCPs believe an annual physical examination detects subclinical illness, and many report performing unproven screening laboratory tests. Primary care providers do not appear to accept recommendations that annual physical examinations be abandoned in favor of a more selective approach to preventing health problems.
Screening is labour and resource intensive. It involves treatment for many women not destined to develop invasive cancer. The increased intervention rate for cervical abnormality in England is due to change in practice, not a cohort effect, and is probably the reason for the marked fall in incidence and mortality during the 1990s. For other cancers there is scope for major iatrogenic harm from screening because of invasive tests and treatments.
Large-scale trials of screening for biotinidase, CAH, MCAD and GA1 should be conducted, with careful evaluation to establish their clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in practice. Screening for the latter two disorders would be dependent upon the use of tandem mass spectrometry (tandem MS). The application of tandem MS to newborn screening requires further evaluation. The extension of neonatal screening programmes to other IEMs is not currently justified.
Although well tolerated, the tanespimycin/gemcitabine combination exhibited limited anticancer activity in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian and primary peritoneal carcinoma, perhaps because of failure to significantly downregulate the client proteins at clinically achievable exposures.
Filling the fat of the mediastinal to cover the residual cavity left by completely systematic mediastinal lymphadenectomy can reduce the refractory cough after surgery, and can also improve the quality of the life. It has no effect on the the operation duration time, bleeding volume in operation and 1st post-operation day's drainage volume of the patients.
The frequency of most symptoms in non-small cell lung cancer increases inexorably with time until malaise and anorexia are almost universal. Haemoptysis and chest pain are better palliated than cough and breathlessness. Present treatments fail to give adequate palliation for many patients, and the emphasis in future therapeutic studies should be on the relief of the more severe symptoms.
EBR alone is more effective than HDREB for symptom palliation in previously untreated patients with endobronchial non-small-cell lung cancer. HDREB with EBR seems to provide better symptom relief than EBR alone. HDREB is recommended for symptomatic patients with recurrent endobronchial obstruction previously treated by EBR, providing it is technically feasible.
Both GEM and PV yield a symptom control rate much higher than expected by the objective tumour RR. GEM is equally effective in controlling 'disease-specific' symptoms, but superior in controlling 'constitutional' symptoms. Most of the symptom control was achieved during the first 3 cycles of treatment, with some further improvement thereafter in the GEM-arm only.
These recommendations (Grade D) include simple linctus, therapeutic trial of sodium cromoglycate and then prescription of an opioid or opioid derivative (dextromethorphan, morphine or codeine). Further research is clearly and urgently required in this area for more effective approaches to managing cough, tested in trials that have sufficient size, power and validity.
Clustering is an important issue in many individually randomized trials. Ignoring it can lead to underestimates of the uncertainty and too extreme P-values. Even when there is little apparent heterogeneity across clusters, it can still have a large impact on the estimation and interpretation of the treatment effect.
The findings warrant the conclusion that TEM is a safe, effective treatment for selected cases of rectal cancer, with low morbidity and no mortality. The TEM procedure broadens the range of lesions suitable for local resection to include early cancers (pTis and pT1) and more advanced cancers only in frail people.
Local excision for rectal cancers is associated with a low morbidity and provides satisfactory local control and disease-free survival rates for T1 rectal cancers. There is, however, a need for a randomized, controlled trial for T2 cancers, comparing local excision with adjuvant chemoradiotherapy to radical resection.
Lower morbidity, similar local recurrence, and survival rates favor the TEM technique. Comparable results in survival rate to the gold standard (AR) are objective arguments for choosing the adequate surgical procedure. For early rectal cancer, the minimum invasive TEM technique should be preferred because of superior overview during operation with safer suturing after meticulous full wall thickness excision.
Our data failed to show discernable therapeutic advantage of adjuvant chemotherapy with given after CCRT for the management of FIGO stage bulky IB and IIB uterine cervical cancer patients. A future clinical trial will be necessary to test the clinical efficacy of the adjuvant treatment using newly developed agents in uterine cervical cancer patients.
A model containing assessable pretreatment variables for predicting the prognoses of patients with early stage cervical carcinoma was formulated. Subsets of patients for whom postoperative chemotherapy or radiotherapy might be beneficial were identified. The data from this retrospective review may be useful when future prospective trials of the treatment of early stage cervical carcinoma are designed.
The results of this study indicated that postoperative adjuvant RT given to patients with a high GOG RS of >120, significantly improved their 5-year recurrence rate and disease-free survival, as compared with the similar group of patients who were without adjuvant therapy in the GOG study. Patients with a GOG risk-score of <40 may be safely spared from adjuvant pelvic RT. The current treatment protocol did not compromise the outcome in patients, compared with the use of a less precise treatment protocol in the past.
This study confirms good local control and 5-year overall and progression-free survival rates in high-risk cervical cancer patients after CCRT, which is comparable with the results of the control group. Our results indicate that adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy seems to be effective in stages IA2-IIA cervical cancer patients with high-risk factors.
Radical hysterectomy and tailored adjuvant radiation therapy in stage IB2 cervical cancer is feasible. Even without the liberal use of adjuvant therapy, survival in this high-risk group compares favorably to primary chemotherapy and radiation. According to recently published randomized clinical trials, most patients should receive adjuvant postoperative therapy. The benefits of this multimodality approach require randomized study.
The multivariate analysis and prognostic grouping system maximally separated patients with early-stage invasive cervical carcinoma into groups with good, intermediate, or poor prognoses, with 3-year RFSs of 90%, 82%, 67%; and 5-year RFSs of 89%, 69%, 43%, respectively. CT + RT played a role in improving RFS among patients with LVSI and deeply invasive tumors and poor prognoses.
Three years of lamivudine therapy reduces necroinflammatory activity and reverses fibrosis (including cirrhosis) in most patients. The emergence of YMDD variants blunts histologic responses; therefore, extended-duration YMDD variants may require additional therapies to maintain the histological benefit of treatment.
Aggressive operation is an effective treatment for HCC in noncirrhotic patients, whatever the degree of liver fibrosis. Multiple tumors and macroscopic vascular invasion are poor prognostic factors. Postoperative iodine-131-iodized oil injection appears to prevent recurrence and improve overall survival, although this needs to be confirmed in a prospective randomized trial.
These data show that progression to cirrhosis in hepatitis B-infected persons is correlated strongly with the level of circulating virus. The risk for cirrhosis increases significantly with increasing HBV-DNA levels and is independent of hepatitis B e-antigen status and serum alanine transaminase level.
The 3- and 5-year survivals of 54% and 39%, respectively, after R0 resections suggest that surgery is an option in hepatocellular carcinoma arising in noncirrhotic livers. Longterm results, however, are hampered by high recurrence rates. Union Internationale Contre le Cancer stage, vascular invasion, and tumor grades are predictors of tumor recurrence and diminished survival, and may help to identify candidates for potential adjuvant therapies.
In patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B, 48 weeks of 10 mg or 30 mg of adefovir dipivoxil per day resulted in histologic liver improvement, reduced serum HBV DNA and alanine aminotransferase levels, and increased the rates of HBeAg seroconversion. The 10-mg dose has a favorable risk-benefit profile for long-term treatment. No adefovir-associated resistance mutations were identified in the HBV DNA polymerase gene.
In patients with unresectable HCC, TACE + thymalfasin resulted in numerically higher rates of survival and tumor response, including transplant candidacy, with fewer bacterial infections, than TACE alone. Treatment regimens for HCC including thymalfasin as an immunomodulator should be evaluated in larger trials.
Patients with melanoma consider non-conventional therapies as supplementary to standard medical methods and as a way of avoiding passivity and coping with feelings of hopelessness. This does not lessen the need to educate patients about the lack of efficacy of unorthodox methods but stresses the importance of offering them adequate emotional support.
Patients with a coloplasty and low colorectal anastomosis seem to have similar functional outcome along with similar pouch compliance compared with patients with colonic J-pouch and low colorectal anastomosis. However, the coloplasty may provide an alternative method to the colonic J-pouch for a neorectal reservoir construction when reach or a narrow pelvis prohibits its formation. Technically it also may be easier to construct.
The novel colon pouch is feasible in pigs and technically simpler than the colon J-pouch. These preliminary results indicate that the smaller capacity of this pouch seems sufficient for normal defecation. Its short-term functional results were better than those after reconstruction with a colon J-pouch or a straight coloanal anastomosis.
The transverse coloplasty pouch is a small-volume reservoir that can safely be used for reconstruction after sphincter-preserving rectal resection. The early functional outcome is favorable and can be compared to other colonic reservoirs. The concept of reducing early dysfunction seen after straight coloanal anastomosis and avoiding long-term problems of pouch evacuation is supported by this study. Future trials will compare the transverse coloplasty pouch with other techniques of restorative resections of the rectum.
Ongoing biochemical and pathological regression of prostate tumors occurs between 3 and 8 months of neoadjuvant hormonal therapy, suggesting that the optimal duration of neoadjuvant hormonal therapy is longer than 3 months. Longer followup is needed to determine whether longer therapy alters PSA recurrence rates.
In this study, the clinical revelance of pathological downstaging and the lower percentage of patients with positive margins in the neoadjuvantly treated group with a clinical T2 tumor is not confirmed by a lower PSA progression rate. However, this study indicates that there may be a trend that this advantage in favor of the NEO group directly translates into a better local control rate in clinical T2 tumors. Better local control in cT2 tumors is only going to be of relevance if subsequently you can show that there is a better survival for these patients. Unfortunately, this article reports a study which is not yet mature enough to show relevant information. Presently, neoadjuvant therapy should not be given outside clinical research settings.
Neoadjuvant androgenic suppression is effective in reducing both the pathological stage and the positive margin rate in patients with stage B and C prostatic cancer undergoing radical surgery. Some beneficial effects are evident in those patients treated for 24 weeks, and it is reasonable to assume that the optimal duration of NHT is longer than three months.
Although 3 months of androgen deprivation before radical prostatectomy resulted in an apparently significant decrease in positive surgical margins, a 5-year followup does not indicate any difference in the recurrence rate. Until studies document improvement in biochemical or clinical recurrence with longer periods of treatment, induction androgen deprivation before radical prostatectomy is not indicated.
Prolonged neoadjuvant CAB for 6 months leads to a further decrease in prostatic tumor volume compared with the findings after 3 months. In a few instances, residual tumor areas with substantial MIB-1 defined proliferative activity persist at 6 months, thus indicating that in at least some cases, despite the overall decrease in tumor size, cancer cells can continue the cell cycle under CAB.
(1) Patients with specific adverse pretreatment prognostic factors (i.e., T2C/T3, Gleason score 7-10, pretreatment PSA > 15) benefit from adjuvant hormonal therapy. (2) Upon multivariate analysis, hormonal therapy is determined to be a highly significant predictor of bNED control, after adjusting for all other covariates. (3) The 5-year bNED control rates of 55% for RT+H vs. 31% for RT alone represents the magnitude of benefit from adjuvant hormone therapy. (4) The bNED control curves are separated by about 20 months, representing a delay in disease progression with adjuvant hormonal therapy, as there is no overall survival difference.
There was no association between incidence or rate of Hb decrease and race, age, or pretreatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. However, the recovery from anemia after completion of CAB in African-Americans was slower than in Whites in the Z+ group (P < 0.04). Whereas grade 1 hematologic toxicity may occur in < 5% of the patients with zoladex alone, and approximately 6% with flutamide alone, in our study 81% showed mild to pronounced anemia. Since anemia has not been observed after treatment with XRT alone or XRT followed by zoladex, we conclude that the anemia was due to CAB. Recognition of this side effect should avoid unnecessary diagnostic evaluations.
In radical prostatectomy there is a need for uniform ways to process specimens, assign surgical stage and establish standardized surgical end points. Despite differences in risk factors, the trials were similar in overall design. Within these constraints neoadjuvant androgen ablation was significantly associated with low pT stage and negative surgical margin. Longer followup is needed to validate these measures as good surrogates for tumor specific survival.
Short term neoadjuvant ADT does not affect PSMA expression in benign prostate secretory-acinar epithelium, high grade PIN, or prostate carcinoma. Prostate carcinoma and high grade PIN express significantly higher levels of PSMA than benign prostate secretory-acinar epithelium. Compared with 7E11, the PM2J004.5 anti-PSMA mAb is a more sensitive immunohistochemical marker of prostate carcinoma in formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tissue.
The rates of organ- and specimen-confined disease were higher among the patients treated with ADT. The preliminary follow-up suggested that patients with pT2 disease after ADT have a biochemical progression-free recurrence rate similar to pT2 patients treated with RRP alone. Additionally, high biochemical failure rates in patients with margin-positive disease after ADT may identify a subset of more biologically aggressive tumours in need of early adjuvant treatment.
Although there was a trend in favor of the NHT group with respect to the number of patients with PSA progression and the number with local disease progression, it did not reach statistical significance. These results may be attributable to a true lack of benefit of adjuvant hormonal ablation or to a lack of statistical power to demonstrate a difference in a subset of patients who might benefit from this therapy.
EBRT with HDR-BT produced excellent long-term outcomes in terms of BC, DFS, and CSS in patients with prostate cancer even for those at highest risk. Conformal HDR-BT is both a precise dose delivery system and an effective treatment for both favorable and unfavorable prostate cancer. The addition of a short course of neoadjuvant/concurrent ADT failed to improve outcome. The results were similar at all three institutions, giving credence to the reproducibility of the brachytherapy treatment.
The progression-free, disease specific and overall survival rates for patients with prostate cancer and pelvic lymph node involvement are significantly better after combined androgen ablation and radiotherapy than after radiotherapy alone. These results strongly suggest that early androgen deprivation is better than deferred endocrine treatment for these patients.
The benefits of short-term and long-term hormone therapy for locally advanced prostate carcinoma appear to be significant and to outweigh the associated side effects. Long-term therapy appears to be better than short-term therapy in terms of virtually all endpoints studied, even when the increased incidence of side effects is considered. The current investigation was successful in the use of the complication-adjusted NNT method for oncologic and radiotherapeutic scenarios in which the results of randomized trials could be summarized, adjusted for treatment toxicity, and individualized to a given patient.
Neoadjuvant androgen ablation with CPA reduces the positive margin rate significantly but does not result in a difference in biochemical progression at 3 years. This may be due to a lack of sufficient follow-up, insufficient power of the trial to demonstrate a small benefit, or a true lack of benefit of neoadjuvant androgen ablation before radical prostatectomy.
Use of long-term adjuvant androgen deprivation in addition to definitive radiation therapy results in a highly significant improvement in regards to local control, freedom from distant metastasis, and biochemical free survival in unfavorable prognosis patients with carcinoma of the prostate.
Short-term androgen deprivation with radiation therapy results in a marked increase in local control and disease-free survival compared with pelvic irradiation alone in patients with locally advanced carcinoma of the prostate. Long-term surveillance is required to assess effects on overall survival.
These early data confirm high understaging percentages in clinical staging. The clinical relevance of the statistically significant smaller numbers of patients with positive margins in the neoadjuvantly treated group with a clinical T2 tumor will have to be confirmed when further follow-up allows an accurate evaluation of time to PSA progression, local recurrence, and distant metastases. Presently, neoadjuvant therapy is not advisable outside clinical research settings.
The present study may reveal the possibilities of intermittent endocrine therapy after EBRT. However, the follow-up interval is short and little can be said about the results observed so far, exception of acute tolerance and patient acceptance of the protocol.
The assessment of toxicity combining in different groups the original five scores scale produced conflicting results similar to those commonly reported in literature. Interpretation of the role of pre-treatment factors with uneven distribution in the study requires careful evaluation. These data obtained with conventional curative irradiation of high-risk prostate cancer patients are proposed for comparison with results achieved using modern state-of-the-art irradiation techniques.
Brachytherapy appears to offer comparable results to external beam irradiation and radical prostatectomy when patients are stratified by disease extent. Adopting a strategy of implant alone, implant with hormonal therapy or implant with hormonal therapy and external beam irradiation in patients who present with low to high risk features can improve the overall results in the more advanced cases.
In the year preceding the diagnosis of cancer, the number of cases with unprovoked VTE was modestly higher than expected, and almost all of the unexpected VTE cases were associated with a diagnosis of metastatic-stage cancer within 4 months. Given the timing and advanced stage of the unexpected cases, it is unlikely that earlier diagnosis of these cancers would have significantly improved long-term survival.
Although this three-drug regimen was active in the treatment of patients with small cell lung carcinoma, it was more toxic than standard platinum and etoposide regimens and provided no apparent improvement in efficacy. Further investigation of topotecan as a component of first-line therapy should focus on two-drug combination regimens in which the topotecan dose can be optimized. Routine use of three-drug regimens in patients with small cell lung carcinoma should await demonstration of superiority in randomized trials.
Combination therapy with topoisomerase I and II inhibitors is a safe and effective regimen for patients with SCLC. Future research on this combination should focus on an oral regimen for patients with extensive disease and poor tolerance to cisplatin. The authors recommend an oral dosage of topotecan at 1.2 mg/m(2) per day (equivalent to intravenous topotecan at 0.75 mg/m(2) per day) for 5 days followed by etoposide 50 mg twice daily for 7 days.
The selected patient population represents a subgroup with extremely poor prognosis. Accordingly, results were not impressive. Both treatment arms showed favourable toxicity data, but failed to show remarkable activity, thus adding only limited evidence to the issue of whether patients with refractory ovarian cancer might benefit from second-line chemotherapy. Even stratified analysis did not identify any subgroup of patients in whom the administration of second-line chemotherapy could demonstrate a clinically relevant survival benefit.
The use of goserelin and bicalutamide did not appear to prolong PFS in patients with epithelial ovarian cancer in second or greater complete disease remission. The number of patients in disease remission at given time points may serve as a clinical trial endpoint for future studies of consolidation therapy.
The prevalence of IBD in this representative Lebanese cohort falls in the intermediate range of that reported for white populations in Europe and North America. Future studies are needed to examine local risk factors, disease genotypes and phenotypes, and epidemiologic time trends. The psychosocial burden of IBD in Lebanon appears significant.
In patients with early-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma and a favorable prognosis, treatment with two cycles of ABVD followed by 20 Gy of involved-field radiation therapy is as effective as, and less toxic than, four cycles of ABVD followed by 30 Gy of involved-field radiation therapy. Long-term effects of these treatments have not yet been fully assessed. (Funded by the Deutsche Krebshilfe and the Swiss Federal Government; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The etiology of CRCI is multi-factorial. Following from this, there is no consensus on the best way to assess CRCI although objective measures are more reliable. One must extrapolate data from the non-gynecologic cancer literature, even venturing to non-cancer literature, to explore the treatment and prevention of CRCI. The methods found in these areas of research have not yet been applied to CRCI in gynecologic oncology.
Cognitive function, defined as higher-order mental processes, may be altered along two distinct and interacting pathways: (a) the cancer diagnosis, which can lead to anxiety, stress, distress, and depression; and (b) the direct physiologic effects of cancer treatment. The Chemotherapy-Related Change in Cognitive Function conceptual model is informed by a review of literature that illustrates antecedents, moderators, mediators, and consequences that may be relevant to this issue.
These results, although preliminary based on the small sample size, suggest that AC/CAF chemotherapy is more cytokine inducing than CMF. Future studies should confirm these results and explore the distinct inflammatory responses elicited by different chemotherapy regimens when assessing cognitive function in cancer patients.
There is a strong argument that androgen-ablation therapy is linked to subtle but significant cognitive declines in men with prostate cancer. The authors believe that clinicians should become aware of this correlation as the use of ADT increases and should inform and monitor patients for this possible side effect of treatment.
As a fluorescent marker, PPIX could represent a possible new diagnostic tool to detect early malignant and secondary lesions in the oral cavity. In addition, 5-ALA-induced PPIX fluorescence is promising as a useful intraoperative tool for determining adequate surgical margins of resection. Further investigations aim to assess this diagnostic procedure as a sensitive and clinically reliable method for patients with oral cancer.
The negative predictive value (97.33%) suggests that micro-biopsy may well be an effective first-level diagnostic procedure for PMLs (especially in follow-ups and multiple lesions); moreover, in carcinoma (17% of cases) a definitive diagnosis could be made without further investigation.
The authors propose that this multicenter trial demonstrates that OralCDx is a highly accurate method of detecting oral precancerous and cancerous lesions. OralCDx can aid in confirming the nature of apparently benign oral lesions and, more significantly, revealing those that are precancerous and cancerous when they are not clinically suspected of being so. All OralCDx "atypical" and "positive" results should be referred for scalpel biopsy and histology to completely characterize the lesion.
Imaging at 405 nm could help doctors detect precancerous and cancerous oral lesions. Such imaging could be used by dentists, family practitioners, otorhinolaryngologists, general surgeons, obstetrician gynecologists, and internists, and could greatly increase the number of patients who have lesions detected in the precancerous phase.
The utility of salivary transcriptome diagnostics is successfully demonstrated in this study for oral cancer detection. This novel clinical approach could be exploited to a robust, high-throughput, and reproducible tool for early cancer detection. Salivary transcriptome profiling can be applied to evaluate its usefulness for other major disease applications as well as for normal health surveillance.
Although conventional cytology is useful when diagnosing oral PML (better sensitivity and predictive positive value if compared with the cervical smear test with similar specificity) and can improve the accuracy of histological diagnosis, liquid-based cytology gives better results, as it not only enhances both sensitivity and specificity, but also provides material for further investigation (AgNORs, DNA, microbiopsies, etc.).
Oral exfoliative cytology is a simple, non-invasive technique that provides sufficient RNA to perform studies on gene expression. Although material was obtained with all three instruments, adequate samples were more likely to be obtained with the curette or Oral CDx than with a Cytobrush. The Oral CDx is a less aggressive instrument than the curette, so could be a useful tool in a clinical setting.
Brush cytology of all visible oral lesions, if they are clinically considered as suspicious for cancer, are an easily practicable, cheap, non-invasive, painless, safe and accurate screening method for detection of oral precancerous lesions, carcinoma in situ or invasive squamous cell carcinoma in all stages. We conclude that DNA-image cytometry is a very sensitive, highly specific and objective adjuvant tool for the early identification of neoplastic epithelial cells in oral smears.
Smears from brushings of visible oral lesions, if clinically considered as suspicious for cancer, are an easily practicable, non-invasive, painless, safe and accurate screening method for detection of oral cancerous lesions. We conclude that AgNOR-analysis may be a useful adjunct to other methods in routine cytological diagnosis of oral cancer that can help to solve cytologically suspicious or doubtful cases.
The ability to selectively target epithelial and shallow stromal depth regions appeared to be diagnostically useful. For nonkeratinized oral sites, the sensitivity and specificity of this objective diagnostic technique were comparable to that of clinical diagnosis by expert observers. Thus, DSOS has potential to augment oral cancer screening efforts in community settings.
Despite aggressive therapy, patients with SCC of the oral tongue have a low rate of local tumor control and survival, particularly among those with stage I-II disease. These patients should be considered for inclusion in clinical trials evaluating novel postoperative therapies.
Assessing the effectiveness of the public provision of health care services requires accurate information regarding access to those services. This paper sets out a framework for analysing and interpreting longitudinal data to provide information on the extent of access to health care services.
Any significant benefit of routine drainage of colon and rectal anastomoses in reducing the rate of anastomotic leakage or other surgical complications can be excluded with more confidence based on pooled data than by the individual trials alone. Additional well-designed randomized controlled trials would further reinforce this conclusion.
A single fixed dose of pegfilgrastim administered once per cycle of chemotherapy was comparable to multiple daily injections of filgrastim in safely providing neutrophil support during myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Pegfilgrastim may have utility in other clinical settings of neutropenia.
Mucositis causes an increase in oral temperature but does not elevate systemic body temperature, thereby casting doubt on the diagnosis of infection. Conceivably, mucositis may provide an "inflammation bias" that could lead to the overuse of antibiotics and growth factors in 20%-40% of patients with cancer. When one considers issues of antimicrobial resistance and cost, this concern should be tested and clarified in a prospective study based on accurate temperature measurement.
These results demonstrate that allogeneic transplant patients derive functional benefits from short-term exercise training regardless of how the training program is supervised. Determining (1) the reasons for the low participation rate (28%), (2) the patient-preferred characteristics of each exercise supervision style and (3) how best to match patient preference to exercise supervision style remain significant issues in this area of patient delivery services.
A protective effect of high lifetime occupational PA levels was observed for colon and prostate cancers. A tendency for inverse associations was also noted for several other cancer types. Recreational PA was inversely related with smoking-related cancers including lung, esophageal and bladder cancers.
The intervention might have been too brief, and ongoing help might have had accruing benefits. Alternatively, informal carers of patients with cancer may already receive considerable input and the advisor's help gave little additional advantage; or caring for a dying relative is extremely stressful and no amount of support is going to make it much better.
This coordinating service made little difference to patient or family outcomes, perhaps because the service did not have a budget with which it could obtain services or because the professional skills of the nurse-coordinators may have conflicted with the requirements of the coordinating role.
Information needs of elderly postsurgical cancer patients during transition from hospital to home are extensive. Teaching interventions ranged from giving concrete instructions about care of a surgical wound to interpreting complex information about options for cancer treatment. Elderly postsurgical cancer patients need informational support during the transition from hospital to home.
This is the first empirical study of post-surgical cancer patients to link a specialized home care intervention by advanced practice nurses with improved survival. Additional research is needed to test home care interventions aimed at maintaining quality of life outcomes and their effects on survival of post-surgical cancer patients.
This study demonstrates the frequent use of aggressive measures at the end of life among patients with advanced NSCLC in a tertiary care center, as shown by the number of patients receiving anticancer therapy within 30 days of death and brief utilization of hospice services. Further research is needed to identify predictors of aggressive care and to develop interventions enhancing decision-making at the end of life.
Health service interventions in palliative care can be studied using RCTs. Detailed comparative information of strategies, successes and challenges can inform the design of future trials. Key lessons include adequate funding, recruitment focus, sustainable interventions, and mechanisms to minimize participant burden.
Although pain and symptom management, communication with one's physician, preparation for death, and the opportunity to achieve a sense of completion are important to most, other factors important to quality at the end of life differ by role and by individual. Efforts to evaluate and improve patients' and families' experiences at the end of life must account for diverse perceptions of quality. JAMA. 2000;284:2476-2482.
As compared with maintenance chemotherapy in conventional doses, high-dose chemotherapy plus autologous stem-cell transplantation soon after the induction of a complete or partial remission with conventional-dose chemotherapy does not improve survival in women with metastatic breast cancer.
The role of HDC for HRPBC or MBC patients remains undefined. Longer follow-up and mature analyses of the randomized trials are necessary before definitive conclusions are drawn. In the meantime, it is imperative that research continues, to enhance the efficacy of the procedure through innovative strategies.
The work has shown variation both in pre-treatment sexual function and in the pattern of changes seen following radiotherapy. Our questionnaire proved useful to score subjective sexual and vaginal problems as given in the LENT subjective scales. Further study is needed to assess the effectiveness of the scales in assessing late effects.
The combination of ATRA and IFN-alpha2a was inactive in children with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma and Wilms tumor. The lack of activity with this combination in children with refractory neuroblastoma is similar to the disappointing phase 2 results of single agent 13-cis-retinoic-acid (13cRA) and does not support further development of ATRA for children with relapsed neuroblastoma.
During 4-HPR chronic treatment, plasma retinol reduction is not proportional to the dose. Plasma retinol levels of 0.11 microM could be considered as a safety biomarker in children with neuroblastoma. Finally, since initial retinol levels strongly predict the extent of retinol reduction, retinol decrease could be used to monitor 4-HPR compliance.
MIBG at doses up to 18 mCi/kg can be safely administered 6 weeks prior to a BuMel consolidative regimen for refractory neuroblastoma. Preceding MIBG did not impair engraftment following BuMel. This regimen is being further evaluated in a Children's Oncology Group (COG) trial.
The treatment of high risk NBL with tandem HDC/SCR is feasible in terms of transplant-related mortality and the ability to collect adequate PBSC for two transplants. The outcomes from this intensified treatment have been used to design a Children's Oncology Group Phase III study testing the efficacy of tandem HDC/SCR.
The encouraging survival results of our cohort are consistent with the concept that surgery alone for local-regional neuroblastoma might be beneficial to the overall neuroblastoma population because many patients will never need chemotherapy (and will therefore be spared its potential toxicities), and most of those who do have widespread relapses are likely to be cured with contemporary treatments.
High-dose chemotherapy and surgery can achieve a minimal disease state in >50% of newly diagnosed older NB patients. In that setting, local RT, and the use of agents with recently confirmed anti-NB activity, including anti-G(D2) antibodies, and cis-retinoic acid, may improve the poor prognosis of these patients reported to date.
4-HPR/LXS oral powder obtained higher plasma levels, with minimal toxicity and evidence of anti-tumor activity, than a previous capsule formulation. A recommended phase II schedule of 4-HPR/LXS powder is 1,500 mg/m(2) /day, TID, on Days 0-6, of a 21-day course.
Thiotepa- and melphalan based HD regimens, with or without total body irradiation (TBI), appeared to give an outcome comparable to major NBL study groups with acceptable toxicity. Tandem HD therapy gave a 5-year EFS of 73%, whereas a third HD consolidation did not offer any additional advantage for ultra high risk patients with slow response. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2012; 59: 1190-1197. © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The divided dose regimen did not alter the incidence of cardiotoxicity. Other schedules should therefore be investigated. Our data suggest that, at similar cumulative doses, girls are more likely to develop cardiac dysfunction than are boys. If the sex-related difference is proved in larger series of patients, it may be prudent to lower the recommended cumulative doses for girls.
While the PK of PLD is not dose-dependent within the dose range of 30-60 mg/m(2), there is evidence of a cycle-dependent effect that results in inhibition of clearance when patients receive successive cycles of PLD. These results suggest the need for dose adjustments of PLD upon retreatment to minimize the risk of toxicity.
At mean of 7 years after end of therapy, diminished cardiac function was seen in 20% of the patient who had received bolus anthracycline compared to 11% of patients who had received it via infusion. This difference did not prove to be statistically significant.
Use of this methodology demonstrates that there remains sufficient variation in survival unaccounted for by PSA measurements in this patient cohort. Other factors, perhaps unknown, exist that determine survival outcome. Consideration of PSA alone as a surrogate can produce misleading information regarding the risk of death; its use as a surrogate for survival is not warranted when designing a clinical trial in this patient population.
IFN-alpha proved to be an effective drug in the control of cystic craniopharyngiomas. Additional studies should be carried out to determine the optimal dose of IFN-alpha in the treatment of cystic craniopharyngioma. In addition, other drugs possessing high efficacy and low neurotoxicity should be analyzed.
ICB was found to be well tolerated in this group of children. ICB may be a feasible and effective therapy for certain children with craniopharyngioma. Bleomycin may delay the need for aggressive surgery or radiation therapy for several years. Prospective multiinstitutional clinical trials are required to further evaluate the feasibility, effectiveness, and dose schedules of this treatment.
For many children with craniopharyngiomas, the cost of resection is hypothalamic dysfunction and a poor QOL. By using a preoperative classification system to grade hypothalamic involvement and stratify treatment, the authors were able to minimize devastating morbidity. This was achieved by identifying subgroups in which complete resection or STR, performed by an experienced craniopharyngioma surgeon and with postoperative radiotherapy when necessary, yielded better overall results than the traditional GTR.
MINORS is a valid instrument designed to assess the methodological quality of non-randomized surgical studies, whether comparative or non-comparative. The next step will be to determine its external validity when used in a large number of studies and to compare it with other existing instruments.
This report about cervical adenocarcinoma in the southwest region of The Netherlands shows similar results for survival to previous reports. Longest survival was for patients with early stage disease, younger patients and after primary surgery. We found FIGO stage, grade and lymph node metastases of significant prognostic value for survival in cervical adenocarcinoma.
Survival rates for cervical adenocarcinoma were significantly influenced by stage, histologic subtype, tumor grade, the presence of a positive lymph node, and tumor size. Although a randomized prospective study is needed, our data imply that radical surgery may be considered a better primary modality of treatment than radiation therapy for the early stages of cervical adenocarcinoma. Further, the presence of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or obesity may not adversely influence survival rates.
The present data emphasise the importance of early cervical AC as a disease of younger women, making early detection of its precursors (AIS) by regular PAP smear screening mandatory in prevention of disease progression. This can only be achieved by increasing the sensitivity of the PAP smear in detecting abnormal glandular cells in asymptomatic women.
ASC histology appears to be an independent predictor of poor outcome in women with cervical carcinoma compared with their counterparts who have pure AC. The significant decrease in survival was observed only in patients with advanced-stage cervical carcinoma. This decreased survival may be related mainly to the grade of ASC.
More investigation is necessary to clarify the contribution of screening to declines in the squamous cell carcinoma rate and to determine the etiology of adenocarcinoma rate increases over the last three decades in US women less than 30 years old. Because of the small number of actual observed cases, caution must be exercised in interpreting these trends.
Early stage cervical cancer (stages I and II) with a glandular component had a lower 5-year survival rate than squamous cell carcinoma in cases where radiotherapy was the primary treatment. We speculate that this difference in survival rates between cervical adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma was due to the relative ineffectiveness of radiotherapy as a primary treatment in cases of adenocarcinoma.
Rectosigmoidoscopy is sensitive in detecting mucosal changes, independent of clinical symptoms. The localization of these changes corresponds to the high dose volumes as defined by imaging. The development of mucosal and clinical changes in the rectum follows a clear dose-effect and volume-effect. DVH parameters could be established.
Patients with surgically treated Stage IA-IB cervical carcinoma with M/E AC and SCC histology have a similar prognosis. For patients with disease with AS/CC AC histology, the current results and the literature indicate that patients with uncommon histologies have an inferior recurrence free survival rate. Although the optimal therapy for these patients remains undefined, there is no obvious rationale for altering the treatment strategies from those currently employed for patients with M/E AC and SCC.
Sensitivity of a single Papanicolaou smear for CVCA was between 45% and 76% depending on the classification of negative slides that were not available for review, comparable to previously reported sensitivity for AIS. The diagnostic false-negative or false-unsatisfactory rate in reviewed smears was 50% (18 of 36). Diminished sensitivity is due to the under recognition of glandular neoplasia resembling LUS, TM, or reactive endocervical cells. Cancer (Cancer Cytopathol)
There were significant sampling and screening/diagnostic errors (22.2% and 19.4%, respectively). Screening and diagnostic errors could perhaps be reduced by a greater awareness of the range of cytologic changes, but these may be subtle. Heavy bloodstaining with abundant abnormal glandular material may be a useful clue to invasive, rather than in situ, adenocarcinoma, even in the absence of tumor diathesis or fully malignant nuclear criteria.
Over the past 24 years, the incidence of all cervical cancer and squamous cell carcinoma has continued to decline. However, the proportion of adenocarcinoma relative to squamous cell carcinoma and to all cervical cancers has doubled, and the rate of adenocarcinoma per population at risk has also increased. These results suggest that current screening practices in the United States are insufficient to detect a significant proportion of adenocarcinoma precursor lesions.
The energy-enriched formula was more effective in improving the nutritional status of children with cancer during the intensive phase of treatment than the standard formula. Intensive, protocolized administration of an energy-enriched formula should therefore be initiated as soon as one of the criteria for initiation of tube feeding is met.
The study showed that high-dose enteral glutamine did not reduce the incidence and severity of oral mucositis as determined by subjective toxicity measurements, but did show a significant reduction in parenteral nutrition usage. No adverse cumulative effect of this oral glutamine dose was observed.
The increased toxicity rate and high incidence of treatment modifications in this study suggested that current pediatric protocols may require modifications for teenagers with medulloblastoma. The results highlighted several issues that should be addressed in future prospective trials.
It was concluded that the duration of catheterization should be shortened; that the intravascular catheter, which is inserted in urgent situations, should be removed as soon as possible; and that maximal sterile barrier precautions should be taken and due attention should be paid to hand hygiene.
Nuclear grade is strongly associated with recurrence but not with the type of recurrence. Women with high-nuclear-grade DCIS or DCIS detected by palpation who are treated by lumpectomy alone are at relatively high risk of having an invasive breast cancer recurrence, compared with women with low-nuclear-grade or mammographically detected DCIS, and may be appropriate candidates for additional treatment.
The natural history of small, noncomedo DCIS can last over at least 2 decades, with invasive carcinoma developing at the same site in which DCIS was previously discovered in a significant percentage of women (broadly, between 25%-50%). This is quite different from the natural history of comedo DCIS or any type of DCIS treated purposefully by surgery alone.
In this long term follow-up study, local recurrences were found to be rare among patients with tumors > 0.8 mm thick and </= 2.0 mm thick. No difference in recurrence rate or survival between the two treatment groups was found. Patients in this category can be treated with a resection margin of 2 cm as safely as with a resection margin of 5 cm.
A 1-cm margin of excision for melanoma with a poor prognosis (as defined by a tumor thickness of at least 2 mm) is associated with a significantly greater risk of regional recurrence than is a 3-cm margin, but with a similar overall survival rate.
While these data show large increases in early disease (localized stage, thin tumors), they also suggest some increase in advanced disease (thick tumors, 2-year mortality). This indicates that the increasing incidence rates of melanoma are not solely caused by increased early detection and diagnosis of clinically insignificant melanomas, but may also represent a true increase in cancer rates.
There was a 48.5% mortality rate at 5 years of follow-up after local recurrence. Long term survival (> 10 years) was estimated to be 34.9%. The patterns of failure after local recurrence suggest that patients may benefit from aggressive locoregional therapy.
Surgical excision margins no more than 2 cm around a melanoma of the trunk or extremities are adequate; overall survival, disease-free survival and recurrence rate are not adversely affected compared with a wider excision. There is more data to support a 2-cm margin than a 1-cm margin as the minimum margin of excision. Surgical margins should be no less than 1 cm around the primary melanoma.
Not one of the included studies showed any statistically significant difference between the 2 groups treated with narrow or wide excision margins with regard to recurrences and survival. However, current evidence is not sufficient to address the optimal surgical margins for all melanomas, and further research is required.
Although this meta-analysis did not show any statistically significant difference between patients treated with wide or narrow excision margins insofar as overall mortality and locoregional and local recurrences, current evidence is insufficient to address the optimal excision margins for all types of melanomas. Further research is required to establish the appropriate local treatment for different types of primary melanoma and subgroups of patients.
The results of the current study largely are similar to those obtained in northern European countries, the U.S., and Australia and provide further evidence of the importance of selected pigmentary traits, sun exposure, and the number of melanocytic nevi in the risk of cutaneous malignant melanoma.
Deep shave biopsy is preferable to superficial shave or punch biopsy for thin and intermediate depth (<2 mm) melanomas when an initial sample is taken for diagnosis instead of complete excision. We found that a group of predominantly experienced dermatologists accurately assessed the depth of invasive melanoma by use of a variety of initial biopsy types.
This study demonstrates comparable remnant ablation rates in patients prepared for 131I remnant ablation with 3.7 GBq by either administering rhTSH or withholding thyroid hormone. rhTSH-prepared patients maintained a higher quality of life and received less radiation exposure to the blood.
We created evidence-based recommendations in response to our appointment as an independent task force by the American Thyroid Association to assist in the clinical management of patients with thyroid nodules and differentiated thyroid cancer. They represent, in our opinion, contemporary optimal care for patients with these disorders.
Thyrotropin stimulates radioiodine uptake for scanning in patients with thyroid cancer, but the sensitivity of scanning after the administration of thyrotropin is less than that after the withdrawal of thyroid hormone. Thyrotropin scanning is associated with fewer symptoms and dysphoric mood states.
Radioiodine I-131 treatments produce variable outcomes in patients with advanced disease. Hematologic toxicity is well controlled in patients if dosimetric guidelines are followed. I-131 treatment appeared to retard the progression of metastatic thyroid cancer in 50% of the patients who were not cured. Radioiodine doses may be increased to improve efficacy without associated irreversible toxicity.
Stimulation with pegylated-G-CSF or G-CSF results in different expression of key regulatory genes and different functional properties of mobilized hematopoietic stem cells as well as their progeny, a finding that might be relevant for the application of these cells in blood stem cell transplantation.
Pegfilgrastim is cost-effective in primary prophylaxis of FN compared to 6 days per cycle of filgrastim, in patients with NHL receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy (e.g., cyclophosphamide + doxorubicin + vincristine + prednisolone [CHOP-21]) chemotherapy. Study limitations included lack of direct evidence linking G-CSF use with a reduction in FN-related mortality and limited data that show a relationship between relative dose intensity (RDI) and cancer-specific patient survival.
Women younger than 30 years, particularly those younger than 20 years, who have received mantle irradiation for Hodgkin's disease require meticulous follow-up for breast carcinoma. The high incidence of breast carcinoma in this patient population should be considered when making treatment decisions in young women with early stage Hodgkin's disease.
With a median follow-up of 72 months, there were 127 patients developing solid tumors out of a total of 5367 HD patients treated in the GHSG studies HD1-HD9. The cumulative risk of 2% is expected to increase over time due to the rather short median observation time and slow progression of solid malignancies.
Procarbazine, chlorambucil, and vinblastine are associated with increased leukemia risk. Combination drug regimens have leukemogenic effects estimated as the product of RRs for individual drugs. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy increase the risk of selected solid tumors, and the effect of chemotherapy on solid tumor risk is weaker than the leukemogenic effect.
Administration of CT in addition to RT as initial therapy for HL decreases overall SMR by reducing relapse and need for salvage therapy. Administration of RT additional to CT marginally increases overall SMR in advanced stages. Breast cancer risk (but not SMR in general) was substantially higher after EF-RT. Caution is needed in applying these findings to current therapies.
Our analysis suggests that the most critical host factor for developing a second malignancy was age. The fact that patients with stages III and IV disease had an increased risk of second malignancy regardless of age suggests that biologic factors related to the tumor also may have been significant. However, it is possible that the effect of treatment was hidden by stage.
Past treatments with alkylating agents and radiation therapy for Hodgkin's disease were associated with an increased risk of lung cancer in a dose-dependent and additive fashion. The precise risk estimates, however, should be interpreted cautiously, given the possible residual and enhancing effects of tobacco.
Laparoscopic colorectal surgery proved to be safe, cost-effective and with improved short-term outcomes. However, further studies are needed to assess the role of laparoscopic rectal cancer surgery and the value of enhanced recovery protocols in patients undergoing laparoscopic colorectal resections.
Patients undergoing HALS underwent more-complex procedures than LA patients but retained the short-term benefits associated with LA colectomy. HALS facilitates expansion of a minimally invasive colectomy practice to include more challenging procedures while maintaining short-term patient benefits.
The results of our study underline the importance of risk estimation for possible postoperative urological dysfunction by means of preoperative urologic evaluation in this patient collective. Of patients with postoperative bladder dysfunction, 90% improved within 6 months after surgery and only 10% continued to have bladder dysfunction beyond 6 months, indicating irreversible nerve damage.
Regular aspirin use, at a dose adequate for preventing myocardial infarction, was not associated with a substantial reduction in the incidence of colorectal cancer during 5 years of randomized treatment and follow-up. A small decrease in polyps in the aspirin group could not be reliably distinguished from a chance association. Our results suggest that among low-dose aspirin users, (a) colorectal cancer mortality is not likely to be reduced by earlier detection and (b) incidence is not likely to be increased due to aspirin-induced gastrointestinal bleeding.
Four months of treatment with sulindac does not result in a clinically significant regression of sporadic colonic polyps, although a small effect may not have been detected by the size of our study. Our data suggest that the biological response of sporadic and familial polyposis polyps to sulindac is different.
Sulindac-resistant adenomas display less alteration in beta-catenin staining and less epithelial Cox-2 expression when compared with adenomas removed before sulindac treatment. K-ras mutations may contribute to sulindac-resistance. Continued research is needed to investigate molecular alterations related to sulindac resistance.
In patients undergoing colorectal cancer screening, aspirin use should not be based on potential chemoprevention. Aspirin chemoprophylaxis alone cannot be considered a substitute for colorectal cancer screening. Public policy should focus on improving screening adherence, even in patients who are already taking aspirin.
In the Physicians' Health Study, both randomized and observational analyses indicate that there is no association between the use of aspirin and the incidence of colorectal cancer. The low dose of aspirin used and the short treatment period may account for the null findings. However, other characteristics associated with the use of aspirin in observational studies remain a plausible alternative explanation.
Supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta-carotene does not prevent lung cancer in older men who smoke. beta-Carotene supplementation at pharmacologic levels may modestly increase lung cancer incidence in cigarette smokers, and this effect may be associated with heavier smoking and higher alcohol intake.
We found no reduction in the incidence of lung cancer among male smokers after five to eight years of dietary supplementation with alpha-tocopherol or beta carotene. In fact, this trial raises the possibility that these supplements may actually have harmful as well as beneficial effects.
PHS II is unique in several respects. PHS II is the only primary prevention trial in apparently healthy men testing the balance of benefits and risks of vitamin E on cancer and CVD. In addition, PHS II is the only primary prevention trial in apparently healthy men to test the balance of benefits and risks of vitamin C, multivitamins, as well as any single antioxidant vitamin, alone and in combination, on cancer, CVD, and eye diseases. Finally, PHS II is the only trial testing a priori the hypotheses that beta-carotene and vitamin E may reduce the risks of prostate cancer. Thus, PHS II will add unique as well as importantly relevant and complementary information to the totality of evidence from other completed and ongoing large-scale randomized trials on the balance of benefits and risks of beta-carotene, vitamin E, vitamin C, and multivitamins alone and in combination on prevention of cancer, CVD and eye diseases.
The data from this large trial indicated that 600 IU of natural-source vitamin E taken every other day provided no overall benefit for major cardiovascular events or cancer, did not affect total mortality, and decreased cardiovascular mortality in healthy women. These data do not support recommending vitamin E supplementation for cardiovascular disease or cancer prevention among healthy women.
The previously reported adverse effects of beta-carotene and retinyl palmitate on lung cancer incidence and all-cause mortality in cigarette smokers and individuals with occupational exposure to asbestos persisted after drug administration was stopped although they are no longer statistically significant. Planned subgroup analyses suggest that the excess risks of lung cancer were restricted primarily to females, and cardiovascular disease mortality primarily to females and to former smokers.
CARET participants receiving the combination of beta-carotene and vitamin A had no chemopreventive benefit and had excess lung cancer incidence and mortality. The results are highly consistent with those found for beta-carotene in the Alpha-Tocopherol Beta-Carotene Cancer Prevention Study in 29133 male smokers in Finland.
After an average of four years of supplementation, the combination of beta carotene and vitamin A had no benefit and may have had an adverse effect on the incidence of lung cancer and on the risk of death from lung cancer, cardiovascular disease, and any cause in smokers and workers exposed to asbestos.
Fenretinide treatment of women with breast cancer for 5 years appears to have no statistically significant effect on the incidence of second breast malignancies overall, although a possible benefit was detected in premenopausal women. These studies, particularly the post hoc analyses, are considered exploratory and need to be confirmed.
beta-Carotene supplementation is not associated with a decrease in the risk of developing lung cancer. Findings from prospective cohort studies suggest inverse associations between carotenoids and lung cancer; however, the decreases in risk are generally small and not statistically significant. These inverse associations may be the result of carotenoid measurements' function as a marker of a healthier lifestyle (higher fruit and vegetable consumption) or of residual confounding by smoking.
Complete surgical staging was performed in approximately 1/5 women with ovarian granulosa cell tumors; however, in those initially surgically staged, no nodal metastasis was identified. Clinical stage IA disease was the most common original diagnosis in women who recurred, and approximately 15% of first recurrences appear to involve the retroperitoneum.
Serum inhibin levels reflect tumor burden and may be valuable in assessing response to chemotherapy or predicting recurrent disease in women with granulosa cell tumors who have had BSO. Serum inhibin level evaluation should be incorporated into large-group trials of therapy for granulosa cell tumors.
Long-term outcome from this historical randomized trial demonstrate substantial improvements in response rate with the use of HBO-4. The hypofractionation scheme used in the trial resulted in relatively low local control and high complication rates in this group of patients with very advanced SCCHN. However, these results support the theory that radioresistant hypoxic cells limit the radiocurability of SCCHN. Further investigations addressing the hypoxic cell problem with hypoxic cytotoxins or hypoxic cell sensitizers in combination with radiation therapy using more conventional fractionation schemes are warranted.
The approach for optimal treatment of T1a glottic cancer remains unanswered. This results from the relatively inconclusive evidence obtained from the current literature. Properly designed, prospective, randomized, or well-controlled studies will be required. Similar methodologies for treatment and reporting need to be established to make a valid and meaningful comparison between studies.
The consensus meeting confirmed the stablished and widespread use of transoral laser assisted microsurgical resection for early glottic cancer throughout the UK. The common experience gained allowed a full discussion of all aspects of the management with consensus achieved in key areas of standards of care, surgery, histopathologic reporting, outcomes assessment and training. This consensus statement will result in closer auditing of management and dissemination of results.
This study shows the tendency toward greater additional margins compromised by SCC and a higher rate of tumor recurrence in lesions with anterior commissure involvement after laser microsurgery for early glottic carcinoma. Higher recurrence rates were observed in cases with compromised additional margins and in T1 cases.
Trans-oral laser surgery is an excellent treatment option in patients with early glottic cancer irrespective of whether or not the AC is involved. Trans-oral laser microsurgery for early glottic cancer involving AC requires adequate exposure, proper assessment, good experience, and advanced surgical skills.
This meta-analysis shows that there is no clear difference in oncologic outcome between TOL surgery and XRT. There is a trend for improved post-treatment voice quality with XRT, although the clinical significance of this is questionable. TOL surgery dominates XRT from a cost-utility standpoint primarily because of the enhanced downstream affordability of salvage treatment.
Regardless of improvements in entering data in hospital records (most commendably, staging), more rigorous standards are needed. Also, the small increase in advanced-stage patients indicates that efforts toward early detection have not been successful. The rise in radiation therapy perhaps reflected an increased use of nonsurgical treatment for early-stage patients and organ-sparing radiochemotherapy protocols for advanced-stage patients. Regrouping stages III and IV cases into localized disease vs regional metastasis appears to predict survival better. Ongoing refinements of the American Joint Committee on Cancer staging scheme will hopefully improve this cancer's classification.
The evidence base to date demonstrates comparable vocal and quality of life outcomes for radiotherapy and transoral laser surgery for early glottic carcinoma. There is a need for consensus on which measures of vocal quality and life satisfaction to be used in research trials to allow comparison between studies.
DTI allows individual estimation of large fiber tracts of brain. Furthermore, to integrate spatial three-dimensional information concerning the white matter tracts into traditional neuronavigation images during surgery, was valuable in presenting topographical character of involving (shift or erosive) pyramidal tracts and relationship with the margins of neighboring tumors. The mapping of large fiber tracts was a safe, efficient, reliable technique. DTI should be routinely used in neuronavigation surgery of brain tumor involving pyramidal tracts to plan the optimal trajectory and ensure total resection of the lesions during operation, as well as to decrease potential disability after operation and to shorten the length of hospitalization.
Glioblastoma multiforme cells may extend over the Gd area and more widely with increasing tumour size on Gd-MRI. The T2-high area includes the greater part of the tumour but not its entire area. The methods reported may be useful in planning surgical resection, biopsy, or radiosurgery.
The observations in this study indicate the usefulness of 5-ALA-induced tumor fluorescence for guiding tumor resection. The completeness of resection, as determined intraoperatively from residual tissue fluorescence, was related to postoperative MR imaging findings and to survival in patients suffering from GBM.
These findings support the usefulness of awake surgery with intraoperative functional (language) mapping with the attempt to perform supratotal resection of LGGs involving noneloquent areas in the left hemisphere. Indeed, the extent of resection was significantly increased in all cases but 2, with no additional permanent deficit and with control of seizures in all patients. The goal of supracomplete resection is currently to delay the anaplastic transformation, even if it does not (yet) enable a cure.
Most elderly and seriously ill patients died in acute care hospitals. Pain and other symptoms were commonplace and troubling to patients. Family members believed that patients preferred comfort, but life-sustaining treatments were often used. These findings indicate important opportunities to improve the care of dying patients.
Terminal sedation and euthanasia both are often applied to address severe suffering in terminally ill patients. However, terminal sedation is typically used to address severe physical and psychological suffering in dying patients, whereas perceived loss of dignity during the last phase of life is a major problem for patients requesting euthanasia.
This first clinical report of a liposomal cancer vaccine demonstrates that liposomal delivery is safe, induces sustained tumor-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses in lymphoma patients, and may serve as a model for vaccine development against other human cancers and infectious pathogens.
Overall, results indicate that conversion from previous strong opioids to tapentadol ER (50-250 mg twice daily) was successful and resulted in safe and effective pain control with improved gastrointestinal tolerability versus morphine SR in patients with moderate to severe cancer-related pain that was well-controlled on their previous opioid.
Results obtained during maintenance indicate that tapentadol PR (100-250 mg bid) is effective compared with placebo for managing moderate to severe chronic malignant tumor-related pain. Based on results obtained during titration, tapentadol PR provides comparable efficacy to that of morphine sulfate CR (40-100 mg bid), but is associated with better gastrointestinal tolerability.
Laparoscopic nephrectomy for unilateral Wilms' tumour is feasible in children after chemotherapy; it is safe and allows the complete surgical approach required for treating this tumour. Although the patients had a good long-term follow-up, more patients are needed to compare the results of laparoscopic techniques with open surgery.
Laparoscopic resection of adrenal neuroblastoma is feasible and can be performed with equivalent recurrence and mortality rates in L/I risk patients and selected High risk patients. These data suggest that laparoscopic resection of adrenal neuroblastoma should be considered in patients who meet selection criteria, irrespective of risk group categorization.
This retrospective review of thoracic neuroblastoma for an 18-year period shows that thoracoscopic resection is an effective approach to this tumor and offers shorter length of stay and decreased blood loss when compared to open thoracotomy.
Our data have shown the feasibility, safety, and effectiveness of LA for adrenal lesions, including malignant tumors. The relatively long follow-up data regarding the malignant lesions attest to its role in the management of such lesions. Appropriate selection criteria and appropriate laparoscopic surgical expertise are required to ensure its success.
The authors showed that 60% of abdominal operations in children can be performed via laparoscopy. Most types of laparoscopic operations are not performed frequently, but the feasibility of the technique in routine use is excellent. However, the performance of instruments should be improved further, and laparoscopy for establishing the diagnosis in newborns remains difficult.
MIS was practical in every fourth patient in our experience so far. It proved to be an excellent approach in diagnostic interventions and tumor biopsies, whereas efficacy is limited in tumor resections. Further factors (tumor recurrence, trocar site recurrence, tumor growth, and dissemination after CO(2) insufflation) have to be evaluated. Our data encourage the continuation of the study.
The nearly linear dose-response relationship for reduction in brain relapses demonstrated for "early PCI" in the range of doses from zero up to 35 Gy given in 2-Gy fractions supports the model of a fairly logarithmically uniform distribution of metastatic cell number within a series of patients. When PCI is delayed, a significant threshold in dose-response was observed, consistent with a fast growth rate of untreated subclinical brain metastases from small cell lung cancer. The exact shape and locations of dose-response curves is not well established by this retrospective analysis of diverse data. A high probability of eliminating brain relapses following PCI requires a dose of about 30-35 Gy in 2-Gy fractions. Control rates in brain can be enhanced if PCI is applied early.
Combined gemcitabine etoposide is feasible in patients with progressive NSCLC. The optimal combination was gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 per day on days 1, 8 and 15 and etoposide 80 mg/m2 per day on days 8-10 of each 28-day cycle. The response rate of 21% warrants further investigation in patients with advanced NSCLC.
This multicenter phase II trial confirms antitumor activity and encouraging survival with docetaxel therapy in platinum-treated and platinum-refractory NSCLC. To validate these results, a phase III trial randomizing platinum-treated patients to docetaxel or best supportive care is underway.
Such changes, if accepted, will involve a reassessment of existing treatment algorithms. However, they are based on an intensive and validated analysis of the largest database to date. The proposed changes would improve the alignment of TNM stage with prognosis and, in certain subsets, with treatment.
This new classification strategy is based on a multidisciplinary approach to diagnosis of lung adenocarcinoma that incorporates clinical, molecular, radiologic, and surgical issues, but it is primarily based on histology. This classification is intended to support clinical practice, and research investigation and clinical trials. As EGFR mutation is a validated predictive marker for response and progression-free survival with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors in advanced lung adenocarcinoma, we recommend that patients with advanced adenocarcinomas be tested for EGFR mutation. This has implications for strategic management of tissue, particularly for small biopsies and cytology samples, to maximize high-quality tissue available for molecular studies. Potential impact for tumor, node, and metastasis staging include adjustment of the size T factor according to only the invasive component (1) pathologically in invasive tumors with lepidic areas or (2) radiologically by measuring the solid component of part-solid nodules.
Hand-assisted laparoscopic surgery is safe and effective for benign and noncurative colorectal resection. As compared to standard laparoscopic surgery, hand-assisted laparoscopy retains the benefits of minimally invasive surgery and may allow the surgeon to perform complex operations more easily.
In this prospective, randomized study, hand-assisted laparoscopic colorectal surgery resulted in significantly shorter operative times while maintaining similar clinical outcomes as straight laparoscopic techniques for patients undergoing left-sided colectomy and total abdominal colectomy.
The hand-assisted technique appeared to be useful in minimally invasive colorectal surgery, splenectomy for splenomegaly, living-related donor nephrectomy, and procedures considered too complex for a laparoscopic approach. This approach provides excellent means to explore, to retract safely, and to apply immediate hemostasis when needed. Although the data presented here reflect the authors' initial experience, they compare favorably with series of similar procedures performed purely laparoscopically.
Patterns of relapse differ significantly between patients with thymic carcinoma and those with thymoma, with lower progression-free survival, earlier onset, and more distant relapses in patients with thymic carcinoma. Given the greater propensity for distant failures, the inclusion of systemic therapy in the treatment of thymic carcinoma might take on greater importance. Despite significantly higher rates of distant relapse, good overall survival in patients with thymic carcinoma can be achieved.
The use of induction chemotherapy to optimize surgical resectability of thymoma followed by radiation therapy and consolidation chemotherapy lead to good control of residual disease and high overall survival rates. We believe that this combined multidisciplinary approach prolongs lives and may cure locally advanced unresectable malignant thymomas. Future prospective multi-institutional studies are needed to further verify or define the best treatment for this patient population.
The VIP regimen has moderate activity in patients with advanced thymic malignancies. However, with limited follow-up, the results of this trial appear to be inferior to other chemotherapy regimens reported in large Phase II trials performed in patients with this disease.
CAMP therapy was highly effective for invasive thymomas, and the multimodality therapy containing this chemotherapy brought about good disease control in the majority of patients. We believe that this multidisciplinary treatment with CAMP therapy, surgery, and radiotherapy is a justifiable initial treatment for patients with advanced invasive thymoma. Furthermore, appropriate treatments are essential for the long-term survival of patients with recurrences after multimodality therapy.
Total resection is the most important factor in the treatment of thymic epithelial tumors. There is value in debulking surgery in invasive thymoma, but not in thymic carcinoma. We doubt that adjuvant therapy is valuable for patients with totally resected invasive thymoma and thymic carcinoma.
Our results indicate that multidisciplinary treatment, including surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, is beneficial in treating primary thymic carcinoma. Chemotherapy plays an important role in both primary and relapsed stage IV thymic carcinoma in terms of prolonging the disease-free survival and median survival of patients with lymphoepithelioma-like or squamous cell histology types. For patients with an undifferentiated histology, multidisciplinary treatment or chemotherapy might not be helpful in either primary or relapsed stage IV thymic carcinoma.
HPV-positive oropharyngeal cancers exhibited an enhanced response to radiation, characterized by a dramatically more rapid initial regression than those with HPV-negative tumors. Implications for treatment de-intensification in the context of future clinical trials and the possible mechanisms underlying this increased radiosensitivity will be discussed.
HPV/p16-expression significantly improved outcome after radiotherapy in HNSCC. Hypoxic modification improved outcome in HPV/p16-negative tumours but was of no significant benefit in HPV/p16-positive tumours, suggesting that hypoxic radioresistance may not be clinically relevant in these tumours.
Although the response rate of oxaliplatin and pemetrexed proved less than anticipated, the combination remains an active induction regimen in HNSCC. This regimen should be evaluated further in combination with targeted agents, such as cetuximab, especially in the HPV(+) patient population.
IL-8 is an independent prognostic factor irrespective of treatment. There is an interaction between HGF and treatment arm. Certain subgroups based on IL-8/HGF levels seemed to do better with TPZ/CIS while others did worse, highlighting the complexity of hypoxia targeting in unselected patients.
HPV+ OPC has a different biology compared with HPV- OPC; 5-year OS, PFS, and local-regional control are unprecedented. These results support the possibility of selectively reducing therapy and long-term morbidity in HPV+ OPC while preserving survival and approaching HPV- disease with more aggressive treatment.
Adding pretreatment EGFR expression data to known robust clinical prognostic variables improved the estimation of the probability for OS and LRR after radiotherapy. Its use for stratifying or selecting patients with defined tumor feature and pattern of relapse for enrollment into clinical trials testing specific therapeutic strategy warrants further investigation.
Studies investigating targeted and/or multimodal therapy should consider that some QOL issues specific to these treatments are not covered by the current version of the EORTC instruments. Consequently, the EORTC head and neck cancer module is currently in revision.
As compared with platinum-based chemotherapy plus fluorouracil alone, cetuximab plus platinum-fluorouracil chemotherapy improved overall survival when given as first-line treatment in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Residents trained on a colonoscopy simulator prior to their first patient-based colonoscopy performed significantly better in the clinical setting than controls, demonstrating skill transfer to live patients. The simulator's performance metrics showed limited concurrent validity, suggesting the need for further refinement.
Increased patient comfort resulted from simulation training, demonstrating that CBES training has a direct benefit to the patient. Although no measurable impact on residents' performance skills was observed, we do demonstrate that residents perceive themselves as having acquired greater endoscopic skills in contrast to staff evaluations.
There were different learning curves for surgeons depending on their endoscopic background. The familiarization rate on the simulator was proportional to the endoscopic experience of the surgeons. Psychomotor training had a significant effect on the performance of a simulated colonoscopy.
compactEASIE simulator training (3 sessions over 7 months), together with clinical endoscopic training resulted in objective improvement in the performance by fellows of all 4 endoscopic hemostatic techniques, whereas significant improvement was noted for variceal ligation alone for fellows who had standard clinical training. In clinical practice, fellows who had intensive simulator/clinical training had a significantly higher success rate and a nonsignificant reduction in the frequency of occurrence of complications.
Skills acquired by simulation-based training seem to be transferable to the operative setting. The studies included in this review were of variable quality and did not use comparable simulation-based training methodologies, which limited the strength of the conclusions. More studies are required to strengthen the evidence base and to provide the evidence needed to determine the extent to which simulation should become a part of surgical training programs.
Different learning curves existed for surgeons with different laparoscopic background. The familiarization rate on the simulator was proportional to the operative experience of the surgeons. Experienced surgeons demonstrated best laparoscopic performance on the simulator, followed by those with intermediate experience and the beginners. These differences indicate that the scoring system of MIST-VR is sensitive and specific to measuring skills relevant for laparoscopic surgery.
Qualitative analysis of observational and interview data provides strong preliminary support for the effectiveness of this approach. The response of teachers and learners was extremely positive. The combination of information (presented by computer) and practice of psychomotor skill (using simulated tissue models) could be extended to other surgical and practical skills.
This study demonstrates that in the absence of feedback, it is not possible to improve performance on the HT Immersion Medical Colonoscopy Simulator. Thus, there is no learning curve for the machine. The information from this study is vital for using the simulators in training and assessment because any improvement in learning curves shown after training on simulators can be presumed to be due to learning the procedure and not the simulator.
The GAGES-UE and GAGES-C are easy to administer and consistent and meet high standards of reliability and validity. They can be used to measure the effectiveness of simulator training and to provide specific feedback. The GAGES results can be generalized to North American and European endoscopists and may contribute to the definition of technical proficiency in endoscopy.
The present results reflect the dramatic effectiveness of cisplatin-based chemotherapy for ovarian MGCT and confirm that unilateral oophorectomy can preserve fertility without compromising cure. Age > 22 years, histology (EST) and serum AFP > 1000 ng/ml are possible prognostic factors (univariate analysis) to be tested in an independent body of data on cisplatin-treated patients.
Platinum-based chemotherapy has been confirmed to be effective in the management of patients with NDOGCT. Relapses were principally seen among patients with AFP >1000 kU/L or pure EST histology. Efforts to improve outcome need to focus on patients with EST, whereas less intensive management strategies may be appropriate for some patients with IT.
Staging and tumor-reductive surgery strongly affected the prognosis of this disease. Tumor-reductive surgery is advisable when ascites is minimal. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy after surgery was superior to chemotherapy without cisplatin; however, p53 status seemed to have no impact on chemosensitivity in yolk sac tumors of the ovary.
Bexarotene (Targretin capsules) (the first retinoid X receptor-selective rexinoid) was well tolerated and effective as an oral treatment for 15 (54%) of 28 patients with refractory or persistent early-stage cutaneous T-cell lymphoma at doses of 300 mg/m(2) per day. Hypertriglyceridemia and hypothyroidism require monitoring but are reversible and manageable with concomitant medication.
Gene expression changes in both the tumour and the tumour microenvironment are an important determinant of treatment outcome in early-stage MF patients. Some proinflammatory factors such as NF-kappaB, inflammatory cytokines and their receptors in addition to TCR-associated molecules could be promising targets for MF treatment.
The continued rise in incidence of CTCL is substantial, and the cause of this increase is unknown. The racial, ethnic, sex, and geographic differences in incidence may be of etiologic importance. Changes in ICD-O definitions have made it difficult to evaluate incidence trends for subclassifications of CTCL such as mycosis fungoides. In addition, these changes resulted in the creation of ambiguous histologic codes, which may have caused coding errors. These errors along with the lack of independent verification are limitations of our study. An epidemiological investigation using population-based data is important to better understand this disorder.
Patients with clinical stage IA mycosis fungoides treated at Stanford University do not have an altered life expectancy. Fewer than 10% progressed to more advanced stages and few died of disease. Although the response rate to total skin electron beam therapy was superior to that of topical mechlorethamine, the longterm survival results were similar. Topical mechlorethamine is a cost-effective and convenient therapy for patients with limited patch and plaque mycosis fungoides.
A staging system based on histopathologic evaluation of skin, lymph nodes, blood, and visceral sites provides more comprehensive prognostic information than clinical evaluation of skin disease and adenopathy. Patients may be divided at initial presentation into three prognostic groups: good-risk patients, who have plaque-only skin disease without lymph node, blood, or visceral involvement (median survival, greater than 12 years); intermediate-risk patients, who have cutaneous tumors, erythroderma, or plaque disease with node or blood involvement but no visceral disease or node effacement (median survival, 5 years); and poor-risk patients, who have visceral involvement or node effacement (median survival, 2.5 years).
The prognosis for juvenile-onset MF is similar to that of adult-onset disease. There was an overrepresentation of a cytotoxic phenotype, which was most marked in hypopigmented variants. Widespread cutaneous disease (Stage IB) indicated a less favorable outcome.
Mycosis fungoides is usually not a fatal disease, although the mortality risk is substantial. The authors quantified various prognostic factors and documented an improved prognosis over the 20-year period of study. The data from this study raise concern about possible detection bias in incidence data. These data are also consistent with the concept that beyond 11 years after diagnosis, this disorder has relatively little impact on the risk of death.
No clear evidence emerged of adverse effects resulting from the CIN treatment itself, because the women treated had more pregnancies and more children than their reference population. TOPs and extrauterine pregnancies were more common among the treated women already before the CIN treatment.
A clear association exists between conization and PTD before the 34th week. This association persists after controlling for variables considered to coexist with PTD. Careful surveillance is required in pregnancies of women following conization for early detection of preterm contractions and PTD.
This study reveals that the thickness and the total volume of the excised transformation zone are associated with an increased risk of PTL. Excisions thicker than 1.2 cm and larger than 6 cm(3) carry a three times greater risk for PTL.
Women treated for microinvasive cancer with LEEP did not have significantly more delivery complications compared with controls apart from shorter duration of labor. There was a possible non-statistically significant trend toward shorter duration of pregnancy in cases. While caution should be advised when selecting and treating women with microinvasive carcinoma by LEEP, the apparent safety of the management and the satisfactory delivery outcome seem to justify this approach in many cases.
The risk of preterm birth is at most minimally affected by a small excision. Larger excisions, particularly over 15 mm or 2.66 cm(3), are associated with a doubling of the risk of both preterm and very preterm births. The risk does not decrease with increasing time from excision to conception. Efforts should be made to excise the entire lesion while preserving as much healthy cervical tissue as possible. Close obstetric monitoring is warranted for women who have large excisions of the cervical transformation zone.
Colposcopy practice has undergone considerable changes in the last five years. There has been a good response to the introduction of a national guideline for referral for colposcopy. While local audits are necessary to identify improvements that need to be made to individual clinical services, this national audit has shown some trends over the past five years, has highlighted the problem of invasive cancer following treatment for CIN and has assessed the impact of a national guideline.
A total of 75% of the cases with missed abortion had an abnormal karyotype, 18% had a morphological defect with a normal karyotype, while no embryonic or chromosomal abnormality could be diagnosed in 7% of the cases. Correlation of morphological and cytogenetic findings in spontaneous abortion specimens could provide valuable information for genetic counselling and prenatal care in future pregnancies in couples with a history of repeated pregnancy loss.
The proposed checklist contains specifications for reporting of meta-analyses of observational studies in epidemiology, including background, search strategy, methods, results, discussion, and conclusion. Use of the checklist should improve the usefulness of meta-analyses for authors, reviewers, editors, readers, and decision makers. An evaluation plan is suggested and research areas are explored.
We determined that the following factors indicate a poor prognosis: (1) tumor age greater than 12 months, (2) number of metastatic organs greater 2, (3) incomplete previous treatment, including unplanned operation and inadequate chemotherapy. In patients with two and three of these factors, the death rates were 17.7 and 56.6%, respectively.
Although etoposide-containing chemotherapy is currently the most effective and well-tolerated regimen for patients with high-risk GTTs, 20-30% of patients develop resistance to etoposide-containing regimens. Salvage combination chemotherapy with FA is effective for these patients with refractory disease, and the toxicity is predictable and manageable.
All patients with low-risk GTT eventually attained complete remission, even though some developed drug resistance to the first-line chemotherapy. The relapse rate was significantly higher in patients with drug resistance than those with primary remission. Chemotherapy regimen that induces little drug resistance is desirable from the viewpoint of long-term prognosis.
According to our 11 years of clinical observation, 5-FU, MTX and VP-16 chemotherapy is one of effective multiagent regimen for patients with high-risk GTTs. Its toxicity is mild and manageable. For patients with high-risk and refractory GTTs, this new triple salvage chemotherapy regimen may be an effective alternative.
In this systematic review we present information relating to the effectiveness and safety of the following interventions: 5HT(3) antagonists, antihistamines, antimuscarinics, atypical antipsychotics, benzodiazepines, butyrophenones, cannabinoids, corticosteroids, haloperidol, metoclopramide, NK1 antagonists, phenothiazines, prokinetics, 5HT(3) antagonists plus corticosteroids, and venting gastrostomy.
GBP was well tolerated in patients with brain tumours. Seizure frequency was reduced in all patients and efficacy persisted over time; however, the mechanism of this improvement is unclear. Concurrent therapy, regression of frequency to the mean, and the lack of controls may account for apparent benefit. In addition, because GBP may interact with a leucine-related neuronal binding site we also speculate that this novel mechanism of action may have been enhanced in our patients due to the abnormal blood-brain barrier associated with cerebral tumours. Further investigation and a controlled trial are warranted.
There is evidence that AED polytherapy based on mechanisms of action may enhance effectiveness. In particular, combining a sodium channel blocker with a drug enhancing GABAergic inhibition appears to be advantageous. Combining two GABA mimetic drugs or combining an AMPA antagonist with an NMDA antagonist may enhance efficacy, but tolerability is sometimes reduced. Combining two sodium channel blockers seems less promising. However, given the incomplete knowledge of the pathophysiology of seizures and indeed of the exact mechanisms of action of AEDs, an empirical but rational approach for evaluating AED combinations is of fundamental importance. This would involve appropriate testing of all possible combinations in animal models and subsequent evaluation of advantageous combinations in clinical trials. Testing procedures in animals should include the isobologram method, and the concept of drug load should be the basis of studies in patients with epilepsy.
We found a strong association between TM and testicular malignancy. We think that the most prudent use of resources for early detection of malignancy would be to have all patients with CTM perform testicular self-examinations, and follow-up sonography should be limited to a subgroup of patients with CTM and other associated risk factors.
This brief intervention was successful in encouraging women to perform adequate BSEs. Although the role of the BSE in patient care remains controversial, these results show that even brief intervention programs can be effective at encouraging self-screening for cancer. This intervention could easily be modified to target other screening practices (e.g., skin or testicular cancer screening) that are associated with reduced cancer morbidity and mortality.
Men with clinical stage I testicular cancer, as defined by a normal physical examination, normal radiological scans (computed tomography [CT]) and serum markers (alpha-fetoprotein [AFP] and beta-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (betaHCG) which are normal or fall within normal limits during their expected half-lives, are eligible for surveillance. A recommended surveillance schedule is as follows: 1) Physical examination, blood serum marker tests (AFP and HCG), and chest x-rays should be conducted every month in the first year, every 2 months in the second year, every 3 months in the third year, and every 6 months in the fourth and fifth years; and 2) CT scans of the abdomen and pelvis should be conducted every 3 months in the first year, every 4 to 6 months in the second year and every 6 months in the third year, and once a year in the fourth and fifth year.
Testicular cancer will not develop in the majority of men with testicular microlithiasis (98.4%) during a 5-year followup interval. We believe that an intensive screening program for men with testicular microlithiasis is not cost-effective and would do little to improve outcomes associated with testicular cancer. We continue to recommend testicular self-examination in men at risk.
These results suggest that cerclage suturing technique provided excellent haemostasis and restoration of normal cervical anatomy. Cerclage suture of the cone bed is superior to only cauterization as a method of achieving haemostasis, with significantly less blood loss and shorter operative time.
An antimicrobial vaginal pessary containing tetracycline and amphotericin B did not provide any significant benefit after LLETZ, except for a subgroup of women with positive vaginal or endocervical swabs. Given that this group of women cannot be identified before the procedure since swabs are not routinely taken, the use of routine prophylactic topical antibiotics cannot be recommended for the general population.
In the authors' analysis of secondary cytoreduction for recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer, a significant survival benefit was demonstrated for residual disease that measured < or = 0.5 cm. The disease-free interval and the number of recurrence sites should be used as selection criteria for offering secondary cytoreduction.
: The current data supported the definition of localized recurrent ovarian cancer as patients with 1 or 2 radiographic recurrence sites. In this select population, a diagnosis-to-recurrence interval >or=18 months and complete secondary surgical cytoreduction, which was achievable in the majority of patients, were associated with a median postrecurrence survival of approximately 50 months.
Secondary cytoreductive surgery significantly lengthened survival for patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients with ascites at disease recurrence, however, were not suitable for aggressive secondary surgery, and redebulking surgery for those with residual disease of >1.0 cm after primary operation should be considered prudently.
Positive CA-125 (cancer antigen 125) was identified as a negative prognostic factor at multivariate analysis. After careful selection, optimal cytoreduction can be achieved in most patients who are subjected to SCR with acceptable morbidity. Residual tumor and CA-125 represent the most important prognostic factors.
Rectosigmoid colectomy can contribute significantly to a maximal cytoreductive surgical effort for recurrent ovarian cancer. Despite technical differences, including a frequent requirement for resection of the distal urinary tract, morbidity is comparable to rectosigmoid colectomy performed for primary cytoreduction and the associated survival outcome appears favorable.
Complete secondary cytoreductive surgery for recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer is technically feasible and has an acceptable operative complication rate. Survival is significantly improved for patients having complete resection. Subsequent relief of symptoms and performance status are excellent.
In the present study, the impact of SCS on the significant survival benefit was identified for patients with low CA125 value at recurrence as well as with complete resection. Although further analyses are needed, patients whose recurrence was diagnosed by routine examinations without CA125 elevation might be better candidates for SCS.
Complete tumour resection following secondary cytoreductive surgery is associated with improved survival in selected groups of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. However, other clinical factors than surgical cytoreduction are of considerable significance in determining the outcome of the salvage treatment.
IPHC is a relatively well-tolerated procedure with the majority of the morbidity being related to associated surgery. When combined with SSC it has the potential to extend quality life in some patients with recurrent ovarian cancer and warrants continued research. Randomized studies are needed earlier in the course of the disease.
The application of cytoreductive surgery might improve the prognosis of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer if the tumor was resectable. Preserved prognoses of platinum-resistant disease with short treatment-free interval demonstrated in this study suggest that the concept of maximum cytoreduction might be introduced in the treatment of recurrent disease in the future.
Secondary cytoreductive surgery for recurrent ovarian cancer at an apparently solitary intra-abdominal site resulted in optimal residual tumor in a high proportion of patients. Although there was no survival advantage for patients whose tumor was optimally debulked, there was a trend toward improved survival. A large prospective randomized trial of secondary cytoreduction for recurrence is recommended.
En bloc resection of primary and recurrent epithelial ovarian carcinomas with low anterior resection permits a high rate of complete debulking with acceptable morbidity and mortality rates. Patients with no visible RT after surgery had a survival advantage over patients with visible RT.
SCR was found to be safe for patients with relapsed EOC who achieved a clinical complete remission that lasted > or = 3 months, with resectability similar to that of primary debulking surgery. Optimal surgical outcomes were achieved easily in patients who apparently had solitary tumor sites, with bowel resection making it possible to remove bulky tumors that involved the intestine. A survival benefit was provided by optimal SCR, particularly when surgery was supported by multiple courses of salvage chemotherapy.
Available evidence does not support either screening of pre- or postmenopausal women without a family history of ovarian cancer or routine screening in women with a family history of ovarian cancer in one or more relatives (without evidence of a hereditary cancer syndrome). Women from a family with the rare hereditary ovarian cancer syndrome are at high risk for the disease and should be referred to a gynecologic oncologist.
This is the first trial comparing carboplatin and cisplatin in the treatment of advanced NSCLC. Although paclitaxel/carboplatin yielded a similar response rate, the significantly longer median survival obtained with paclitaxel/cisplatin indicates that cisplatin-based chemotherapy should be the first treatment option.
Patients with advanced NSCLC and a PS of 2 experienced a large number of adverse reactions and overall poor survival. A comparison with patients with a PS of 0-1 suggests that these events and the shorter survival were related to disease process rather than treatment. Alternative strategies need to be explored with therapy specifically tailored for this group of patients.
Our individual patient data meta-analysis suggests that cisplatin-based chemotherapy is slightly superior to carboplatin-based chemotherapy in terms of response rate and, in certain subgroups, in prolonging survival without being associated with an increase in severe toxic effects. Therefore, cisplatin-based third-generation regimens should remain the standard reference for the treatment of selected patients with advanced-stage NSCLC and of those with earlier-stage disease.
Laparoscopy is a suitable procedure for the treatment of patients with early endometrial cancer and may offer the potential benefits of decreased discomfort with decreased convalescence time without compromising the degree of oncological radicality required; however, it does not seem to modify the disease-free survival and the overall survival, although multicenter randomized trials and long-term follow-up are required to evaluate the overall oncologic outcomes of this procedure.
Cancer control in women with endometrial cancer does not appear to be worsened by laparoscopic surgery. In the absence of level I evidence to establish long-term recurrence and survival equivalence, analysis of series as they mature is crucial to fully evaluate disease control afforded by laparoscopy.
Even if limited by few RCTs with short-term follow-up, our data suggest that laparoscopic approach should be considered an effective and safe procedure for patients with early stage endometrial cancer as well as laparotomic one. Notwithstanding the longer operative time, advantages of the laparoscopy over traditional laparotomy regard intraoperative blood loss and postoperative complications.
The present study demonstrates that, given adequate training in laparoscopic surgery, laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy may replace abdominal hysterectomy in most patients who require a hysterectomy and have contraindications to vaginal hysterectomy, with all the benefits associated with the vaginal route.
The favorable results from this retrospective study refute the bias that age is a relative contraindication to laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic staging was associated with an increased OR time and an increased rate of transfusion but equivalent blood loss and lymph node counts. Possible advantages are decreased length of stay, less postoperative ileus, and less infections complications. Transvaginal hysterectomy still remains a proven option for women with serious comorbid medical problems with short OR times, minimal complications, and short lengths of stay.
Intensive, home-based psychotherapy reduces diabetes-related stress among adolescents with chronically poorly controlled type 1 diabetes. Such stress reductions are important for the psychological wellbeing of a subset of youths with diabetes who are at high risk for future health complications.
MST improved family relationships for youths with diabetes in two-parent but not in single-parent families. Objective outcomes related to diabetes were strongest for single-parent families. Other processes such as increased parental monitoring may have been responsible for improved health outcomes among these families.
The ambulatory TW intervention prevented the expected deterioration in glycemic control seen with SC in youths with T1DM of < or =6 years' duration. Successful family involvement may assist in the preservation of health and the prevention of long-term diabetes complications for youth with diabetes.
Relaxation techniques seem to have a positive impact on stress and on various lifestyle factors in parents of children and adolescents with DT1. Future research on long-term benefits of an intervention program comprising of various relaxation schemes is warranted.
The data demonstrate that parent involvement in diabetes management tasks can be strengthened through a low-intensity intervention integrated into routine follow-up diabetes care. Moreover, despite increased engagement between teen and parent centered around diabetes tasks, the teamwork families showed decreased diabetes-related family conflict. Within the context of a broader cultural recognition of the protective function of parent involvement in the lives of adolescents, the findings of this study reinforce the potential value of a parent-adolescent partnership in managing chronic disease.
Our results demonstrate modest positive effects of a family support intervention in promoting the adjustment of children with selective chronic health conditions. Including child life specialists in a community-based intervention may be especially salient for children with chronic illnesses who have low physical self-esteem. The intervention had a similar outcome for all diagnostic groups, suggesting that it could be effective for children with any chronic illness and implemented in a variety of pediatric settings.
This suggests that any of the active treatment protocols assessed in this investigation work better than established treatments that have been reported in the literature. Because the addition of cognitive and parental support components did not seem to increase treatment effectiveness, it is concluded that increased fiber with biofeedback-assisted cultivated low arousal was effective and efficient as a treatment modality.
No differences in A1c were detected among the three groups at 2 yr. The psychoeducational intervention was effective in maintaining or improving A1c and parent involvement in youth with suboptimal baseline glycemic control.
The Childhood Asthma Prevention Study intervention was effective in reducing several environmental exposures and improving illness management. However, even with an intensive home-based intervention, we failed to reduce respiratory symptoms or medical use in the ES group relative to the control group, illustrating the difficulty of changing the course of early asthma development among low-income infants.
Multifaceted intervention did not decrease asthma among children with early wheezing illness as a whole, but only for children with low illness severity in infancy. Despite having an impact on only less severely ill children, results demonstrate the possibility of ameliorating illness burden for some inner-city families with children at high risk for poor asthma outcomes.
Family-Centered Advance Care Planning for Teens With Cancer demonstrated feasibility and acceptability. Courageous adolescents willingly participated in highly structured, in-depth pediatric advance care planning conversations safely.
This research introduces the novelty of integrating several behavioral procedures within a wide-ranging package that affects aspects implied in diabetes control such as treatment adherence and stress management. The testing of similar programs on samples of subjects with glycemic control difficulties would be useful.
Parents who are unable to achieve the relief of their adolescent's chronic pain and suffering report significant personal distress that is exemplified by the repetitive search for legitimacy of their child's pain in 'diagnosis'. In the absence of diagnosis parents reported an unwelcome suspension in an unusual pattern of parenting, resembling the infant phase of parenting.
Parent- and family-based psychological therapies can improve parent outcomes, with PST emerging as particularly promising. Future research should incorporate consensus statements for outcomes assessment, multisite recruitment, and active comparator conditions.
Family-centered interventions targeting children diagnosed with type 1 diabetes appear to be effective in enhancing health outcomes. These interventions focused on traditional 2-parent families, and many did not report race or ethnicity. Given the increasing number of single-parent households and divorced parents, a need exists to explore and develop family-centered interventions that target nontraditional family structures as well as addressing cultural differences.
Skills-based interventions delivered over multiple sessions may yield the most positive results in AYAs with chronic illness. Given the few peer-support groups eligible for review, their efficacy remains unclear. This review points to the need for intervention development that teaches adaptive coping skills, is grounded in theoretical frameworks, and adheres to strict randomization and independent assessments to evaluate efficacy in assisting AYAs adjust to chronic illness.
The wide variability in reported prevalence rates of chronic health conditions in childhood can be explained by considerable diversity in the concepts and operationalizations used. International consensus about the conceptual definition of chronic health conditions in childhood is needed.
HAART with chemotherapy produced higher overall KS response over 12 months, whereas HAART alone provided similar improvement in survival and select measures of morbidity. In Africa, with high prevalence of HIV and human herpes virus-8 and limited resources, HAART alone provides important benefit in patients with HIV-KS.
Treatment options in the resource-constrained setting are limited, both by financial constraints as well as the need to avoid myelotoxicity, which is associated with high morbidity in this treatment setting. This work shows that gemcitabine has promising activity in KS, with both objective responses and clinical benefit observed in this care setting. Gemcitabine as a single agent merits further investigation for AIDS-associated KS.
The high rate of OI during ABVi chemotherapy and the follow-up is of concern, although these infections possibly could be due to our patients' low CD4+ lymphocyte counts. However, no toxic death was observed in our patients, suggesting that ABVi could be used in patients with aggressive disease, especially those who were previously untreated.
In comparison to cutaneous involvement, LN involvement of epidemic KS occurs at younger ages and at higher CD4 levels. This clinical presentation may reflect recent infection with human herpesvirus 8 followed by a rapid progression to malignancy. Favorable response to treatment was observed in the majority of cases, but prospective studies are needed to determine optimal management.
The current incidence of KS among patients with HIV is less than 10% of the incidence reported in 1994; the proportion of AIDS diagnoses made on the basis of KS diagnoses remains near 6%. Most individuals who developed KS while receiving HAART began treatment with low CD4 cell counts and developed KS within 6 months of the initiation of HAART. There continues to be an increased incidence of KS among homosexual men and a greatly reduced incidence of KS among patients with higher CD4 counts.
Adjuvant treatment with docetaxel, as compared with vinorelbine, improves recurrence-free survival in women with early breast cancer. A short course of trastuzumab administered concomitantly with docetaxel or vinorelbine is effective in women with breast cancer who have an amplified HER2/neu gene. (International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial number, ISRCTN76560285.).
The addition of PPG significantly reduces the incidence of neutropenic fever associated with TAC chemotherapy as well as that of some TAC-induced haematological and extrahaematological side-effects. The HRQoL of patients treated with TAC is worse than that of those treated with FAC but improves with the addition of PPG, particularly in the final part of chemotherapy treatment.
Considering all the available Phase III trials, taxane-based adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast cancer seems to add a significant benefit in both DFS and OS over standard chemotherapy. The lack of significant heterogeneity in the sensitivity analysis underscores the homogeneous effect across all trials.
In summary, GDP is an active regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's disease. The response rate is similar to the rates of other current salvage regimens, it can be given to outpatients with tolerable toxicity and it does not inhibit the mobilization of autologous stem cells.
A brief tumor-reducing program with two cycles of DHAP given in short intervals supported by G-CSF is effective and well-tolerated in patients with relapsed and refractory HD. This regimen can be used to mobilize stem cells and select those patients with chemosensitive relapse who should subsequently be treated with HDCT.
Intermittent androgen suppression in patients with M1 b prostate cancer could be associated with a significant period off-therapy in the first cycle (55.8%), and with a chance of second hormone response. But in the second cycle, the off-therapy period length was short and required a careful follow-up.
TAB can be used intermittently, and appears to be more appropriate for patients with local or biochemical failure. Testosterone recovery is not universal in the off-treatment intervals. IAS needs to be investigated in a randomized trial to determine the effect on overall survival and quality of life.
Prostate cancer is amenable to control by intermittent androgen suppression. This approach affords an improved quality of life when the patient is off therapy. It also results in reduced toxicity and cost of treatment and possibly delays tumor progression. Whether survival is affected in a beneficial or adverse way remains to be studied in a randomized, prospective study.
IAD appears to be a viable treatment option in select patients with localized prostate cancer. With each consecutive cycle, the amount of time the patient was not receiving therapy decreased, despite achieving a low nadir PSA. Longer follow-up with more patients failing IAD will be required before clear patterns of failure emerge in these patients.
The temporary cessation of hormone therapy early during the response in patients with metastatic carcinoma of prostate is associated with biochemical evidence of relatively early progression in most cases, but can be associated with significant periods off therapy and with a high chance of a second hormone response. The value of this approach to the quality and duration of patients' lives requires a prospective comparative evaluation.
These results indicate that IAD is an effective and feasible therapy in patients with early stages of prostate cancer. Larger trials are necessary to confirm these encouraging results. Therefore, a European prospective, randomized, multicenter study (RELAPSE study) has been started to compare IAD with continuous androgen blockade in terms of time to tumor progression, safety and quality of life in patients with PSA relapse after radical prostatectomy.
Long-term outcome figures and actuarial survival rates presented here provide further support for a pulsed or intermittent approach to androgen ablation in patients with prostate cancer. In addition, they serve as valuable extended outcome data for patients managed in this way. Likewise, data presented here suggests that apparent survival advantages appear related, at least in part, to a delay in the onset of androgen resistance and that such a management approach is both safe and effective in those presenting with both metastatic disease as well as those with more localised pathology.
With 10 of 13 patients demonstrating an ongoing second PSA response, 45% of patients showing no progression, and 85% alive at 3 years, these results support findings from previous publications that suggest that there are no major risks with use of intermittent hormone therapy. However, in the future, there is an urgent need that such studies should be randomized and done in the context of audit-based research and development programs. The resources released could then be invested with respect to further improvements in treatment of prostate cancer, possibly considering such a combined approach with immunotherapy as an alternative to surgery or radiotherapy for early disease in elderly patients with long PSA-doubling time.
Our interim analysis indicated that QOL is remarkably improved during the off-treatment period. Intermittent androgen suppression would be a viable option for treatment of advanced prostate cancer, although a randomized controlled study is required to determine whether intermittent androgen suppression prolongs the time to androgen-independent cancer. We will continue follow-up in this study to a minimum of 3 years.
Hormone-naïve patients who achieve and maintain a UD-PSA for at least one year during ADT may initiate IAD and anticipate a prolonged off-phase duration. Attainment of a UD-PSA on ADT may serve as an in vivo sensitivity test of a patient's tumor cell population, and allow for better selection of those best suited for IAD.
IAD appears to be a viable treatment option in selected patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. However, the durability and advantage of IAD, if any, over continuous therapy is unknown at present. Consequently, at the present time IAD should be considered an investigative form of treatment for patients with prostate cancer.
The results of the current study suggest that although many cancer survivors already practice healthy life-style behaviors, there is a substantial proportion who do not. Interventions especially are needed to increase daily F&V intake; however, given the fair degree of clustering between dietary and exercise behaviors, multiple risk factor interventions also may be warranted. Among cancer survivors, receptivity is high for health promotion programs, especially those that can be delivered by mail and soon after diagnosis.
Nutritional depletion is multifactorial, dependent mainly on the tumour burden of the host. Percentage weight loss is a sensitive and specific tool that can screen and identify malnutrition effectively. Its joint use with Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment, which establishes boundaries for nutritional therapy, will optimise the efficacy of nutritional assessment and support in cancer patients.
The addition of CPT-11 to the hybrid LV5FU2 regimen provided a significant overall response rate (40%) with relatively mild toxicity. The overall response rate was 18% in patients treated with LV5FU2 alone in the calibration arm. Thus, considering other encouraging data from the literature, the CPT-11 + FU-LV combination therapy can be regarded as a new, very effective treatment option for first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer patients.
CPT-11 can induce tumor regression in patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma that has progressed during or shortly after 5-FU-based chemotherapy. Gastrointestinal events and neutropenia were the most common serious toxicities. Given the trend toward a higher response rate without substantially greater toxicity, 125 mg/m2 has been selected as the preferred starting dose for further studies. Careful attention to appropriate CPT-11 dose modification and early intervention with loperamide may be especially important in elderly patients.
Esophagectomy with three-field lymph node dissection can be performed with a low mortality and reasonable morbidity. Unsuspected metastases to the recurrent laryngeal and/or cervical nodes are present in 36% of patients regardless of cell type or location within the esophagus. Thirty percent of patients were upstaged, mainly from stage III to stage IV. An overall 5-year survival rate of 51% suggests a true survival benefit beyond that achieved solely on the basis of stage migration.
The persistently high incidence of VOD, its significant impact on posttransplant survival, and the demonstration of recovery from even severe VOD underscore the importance of early diagnosis and initiation of specific therapy. The use of Bearman's model of prediction of severity of VOD and the application of fibrinolytic drugs when adequate are highly recommended.
The Canadian Consortium on Evidence-Based Care in MDS recommends 5-Aza as first line therapy in all MDS patients with IPSS high-intermediate and high risk scores including WHO-defined AML (20-30% blasts) who cannot proceed immediately to allogeneic stem cell transplant. 5-Aza is not recommended as first line therapy with MDS patients with IPSS Low and Low-intermediate risk scores as there is no evidence that it alters the natural history of the disease nor is superior to standard therapy. The MDS consortium does not recommend combining 5-Aza with other agents at this time outside the context of a clinical trial.
Antibody-mediated blockade of PD-L1 induced durable tumor regression (objective response rate of 6 to 17%) and prolonged stabilization of disease (rates of 12 to 41% at 24 weeks) in patients with advanced cancers, including non-small-cell lung cancer, melanoma, and renal-cell cancer. (Funded by Bristol-Myers Squibb and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
We propose that renal cell carcinoma-derived tumor products such as gangliosides can induce a type 2 bias in antitumor immunity by initiating apoptosis in the IFN-gamma-producing type 1 effector cells. This represents a relevant mechanism by which renal cell carcinoma can inhibit protective antitumor immunity.
RCC vaccines have much less toxicity than other current therapies and remain an important area for further research. Reniale has shown significant benefit as an adjuvant RCC vaccine. Vitespen seems promising as an adjuvant treatment in earlier stage disease. A possible area of research is the use of RCC vaccines with immune-enhancing or antiangiogenic agents in the adjuvant setting.
The fact that this retrospective analysis conducted in identical cohorts showed lower calculated equipotent oral morphine doses in the buprenorphine TD groups compared with the fentanyl TD groups calls into question the proposed 1:75 ratio for conversion of buprenorphine TD to equipotent oral morphine doses. Based on the findings of the present study, an equipotency ratio of 1:110 to 1:115 may be more appropriate. However, confirmative data from prospective randomized clinical trials are needed.
Radical hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy followed by tailored adjuvant therapy is a reasonable alternative to primary radiotherapy for stage IB2 cervical cancer. Patients with low- and intermediate-risk factors have satisfactory results after primary surgical management. A prospective randomized trial will clarify the optimal mode of initial therapy for patients with stage IB2 disease.
Clinicians have many effective therapeutic options to choose from when managing the excessive oral, pharyngeal and/or tracheobronchial secretions caused by neurologic disorders. Treatment choices that are predicated upon pathophysiologic causes and patient status are the most likely to succeed.
Low dose oral glutamine supplementation during and after chemotherapy significantly reduced both the duration and severity of chemotherapy-associated stomatitis. Oral glutamine appears to be a simple and useful measure to increase the comfort of many patients at high risk of developing mouth sores as a consequence of intensive cancer chemotherapy.
Combination of enzyme therapy with conventional fractionated radiation therapy was feasible and well-tolerated. There was significant protection against acute side effects of radiation therapy in the study arm. Not only was the severity of acute side effects less but the duration was shorter and the time to onset was also delayed. Prospective randomized double-blind studies would verify this role of an oral enzyme therapy as standard co-medication with radiation therapy to the head and neck region.
Four weekly doses of carboplatin/paclitaxel with concomitant boost radiation was found to be a highly effective regimen in this patient population with advanced SCCHN. The overall survival rate was 89%. The time to percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy removal was prolonged. Amifostine given subcutaneously did not improve the rates of xerostomia and mucositis with this fairly intensive chemoradiotherapy regimen.
Zinc supplementation used in conjunction with radiotherapy could postpone the development of severe mucositis and dermatitis for patients with cancers of the head and neck. Zinc supplementation can also alleviate the degree of mucositis and dermatitis. The impact of zinc on tumor growth and patient survival is under further investigation.
According to our results, there is a radioprotective effect on salivary glands and a potential effect on oral mucosa by amifostine in postoperative radiotherapy combined with carboplatin. To improve the radio- and chemoprotective effects of amifostine in clinical practice, the application of a higher dose (> 250 mg) seems to be necessary.
According to our preliminary results amifostine has a radioprotective effect on salivary glands. Mucositis can be reduced during radiochemotherapy. At this point of patient accrual the difference between both groups are statistically not significant. To improve the radioprotective effects of amifostine in clinical practice the application of a higher dose (> 250 mg) seems to be necessary.
This study provides quantitative estimates of the dose-time and dose-volume relationships for human skin and normal mucosa in the head and neck region based on an analysis of data from 918 patients entered into a randomized-controlled trial of altered dose fractionation in radiotherapy.
A separate measurement of patient-reported pain was useful for capturing the patient's perspective on OM and was correlated with the physician's objective assessment. These findings support the use of a simple, patient-reported rating of mouth pain as a clinically relevant and responsive endpoint in clinical trials. This rating system also may provide a straightforward method of following OM in clinical practice.
The presence of individual patient susceptibility factors that determine the severity of acute mucosal reactions is suggested. A link between severe and prolonged acute reactions and the risk of developing late mucosal reactions that is independent of biological dose, has also been found. Purpose designed prospective studies of these issues are necessary.
1 ) This phase I study demonstrated the safety and tolerability of this edatrexate and carboplatin combination. 2) Dose-limiting mucositis did not occur allowing escalation of edatrexate dose above levels previously achieved with this edatrexate dose schedule. This was most likely a result of prophylactic ice chip cryotherapy. 3) An edatrexate dose of 110 mg/m2 with ice chip cryotherapy is recommended for Phase II trials of this combination.
This study demonstrated that the BCoG lozenge is tolerable and microbiologically efficacious, achieving elimination of Candida in all patients and reduction in gram-negative flora in most patients. A phase III study is underway to evaluate the clinical efficacy of this lozenge.
These results do not suggest a sequence dependence of the synergism between CDDP and 5-FU. However, they challenge the need of oxaliplatin to improve 5-FU/LV activity in advanced colorectal cancer. In fact, our results with an 'optimal' 5-FU dose and scheduling are very similar to those obtained with oxaliplatin plus 5-FU/LV. However, only a randomized phase III study will be able to give an answer to the hypotheses raised by this study.
This study suggests that ice-chip cryotherapy is effective in reducing the severity of mucositis typically associated with this edatrexate schedule of administration. However, unexpectedly severe myelosuppression resulted in death from neutropenic sepsis in two patients with third space fluid collections, leading to a protocol amendment to exclude such patients from study entry. Furthermore, response and median survival with this dose schedule of edatrexate and carboplatin do not appear to be improved compared to other chemotherapeutic regimens tested by SWOG in this patient population.
This prospective, controlled trial provides evidence to suggest that a nonabsorbable antibiotic lozenge can decrease patient-reported radiation-induced oral mucositis to a modest degree. Nonetheless, this evidence does not appear to be compelling enough to recommend this treatment as part of standard practice.
Long-term, patient-rated xerostomia was less for the AMI-3 and AMI-5 groups through 2-year follow-up, but no difference was noted between the AMI-3 and AMI-5 groups. For late xerostomia according to the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group criteria, the same effect was observed at 6 months, but not thereafter.
The guidelines recommend only 1 assessment instrument, the Oral Assessment Guide, or adaptations of this instrument, to be used in clinical practice. Five factors influenced this recommendation: purpose of assessment, population, outcomes assessed, and quality of the instrument and ease of use.
The role of glutamine in the prevention of chemotherapy and radiation-induced toxicity is evolving. Glutamine supplementation is inexpensive and it may reduce the incidence of gastrointestinal, neurologic, and possibly cardiac complications of cancer therapy. Further studies, particularly placebo-controlled phase III trials, are needed to define its role in chemotherapy-induced toxicity.
Overall, interventions chosen on a sound biologic basis to prevent severe oral mucositis are effective. In particular, when oral mucositis is assessed by clinicians, narrow-spectrum antibiotic lozenges appear to be beneficial. Methodologic limitations were evident in many of the studies. Further research using validated measurement tools in larger, methodologically sound trials is warranted.
The authors concluded that chemotherapy is advantageous for patients with malignant gliomas and should be considered part of the standard therapeutic regimen. Additional randomized trials using optimal radiation and chemotherapy may still be needed to precisely define which subgroups of patients, based on prognostic variables, will benefit most from chemotherapy after radiation.
Our survey shows considerable variation in the current treatment by Canadian radiation oncologists of high-grade brain tumours, especially with respect to guidelines followed, number of phases, and overall volume treated. Further studies are thus required to establish the evidence for optimal radiation volumes and phases, especially as brain tumour treatments evolve in the age of mr imaging and chemotherapy.
The decrease in cancer incidence and mortality reflects progress in cancer prevention, early detection, and treatment. However, major challenges remain, including increasing incidence rates and continued low survival for some cancers. Malignant and nonmalignant brain tumors demonstrate differing patterns of occurrence by sex, age, and race, and exhibit considerable biologic diversity. Inclusion of nonmalignant brain tumors in cancer registries provides a fuller assessment of disease burden and medical resource needs associated with these unique tumors.
Post-operative external beam radiotherapy is recommended as standard therapy for patients with malignant glioma. The high-dose volume should incorporate the enhancing tumour plus a limited margin (e.g. 2 cm) for the planning target volume, and the total dose delivered should be in the range of 50-60 Gy in fraction sizes of 1.8-2.0 Gy. Radiation dose intensification and radiation sensitizer approaches are not recommended as standard care. For patients older than age 70, preliminary data suggest that the same survival benefit can be achieved with less morbidity using a shorter course of radiotherapy. Supportive care alone is a reasonable therapeutic option in patients older than age 70 with a poor performance status.
Among experienced colonoscopists, CAC did not improve the initial cecal intubation rate and had a lower adenoma detection rate. However, it shortened the cecal intubation time and performed better as a rescue method. Its utilization should be reserved for selected cases, especially when initial cecal intubation fails.
The time to reach the cecum and the total time for the colonoscopy is the same with or without the cap, which is well tolerated by patients. Using the cap greatly facilitates the possibility of finding small polyps behind folds in the colon, because the folds can be straightened, thereby improving the view, although in this small pilot study it could not be proven that the number of polyps found was greater using a cap-fitted colonoscope.
High-resolution chromoendoscopy provides morphological detail of diminutive colorectal polyps that correlates well with polyp histology. If incorporated into colon cancer screening, these techniques may limit the need for biopsy and/or subsequent colonoscopy and ultimately decrease costs.
Asymptomatic persons 50 years of age or older who have polyps in the distal colon are more likely to have advanced proximal neoplasia than are persons without distal polyps. However, if colonoscopic screening is performed only in persons with distal polyps, about half the cases of advanced proximal neoplasia will not be detected.
The pediatric colonoscope, and particularly the newer Olympus PCF-100 colonoscope, is very useful in adult patients in whom it is not possible to traverse a fixed, angulated sigmoid colon or stricture using the standard adult colonoscope. This is predominantly a problem of female patients. Previous pelvic surgery may be an important causative factor in this regard.
Our results suggest that open access colonoscopy is a reliable and safe method for screening average risk population. As colonoscopy is becoming the recommended screening model for colorectal cancer this attitude of performing screening in an open access system could both cut costs in the future and improve availability, in an aim to become common practice.
Hospital quality assurance committees and/or third-party payors should review the sensitivity of barium enema and colonoscopy by practitioners in their institutions. Corrective measures are recommended when sensitivity deviates significantly below the standard set by gastroenterologists performing colonoscopy in this study.
Colonoscopy performed three years after colonoscopic removal of adenomatous polyps detects important colonic lesions as effectively as follow-up colonoscopy after both one and three years. An interval of at least three years is recommended before follow-up colonoscopy after both one and three years. An interval of at least three years is recommended before follow-up examination after colonoscopic removal of newly diagnosed adenomatous polyps. Adoption of this recommendation nationally should reduce the cost of post-polypectomy surveillance and screening.
Our results indicated that VSC allows favorable examination compared with CC regarding completeness, time to cecal intubation, and comfort of patients undergoing unsedated colonoscopy, irrespective of the examiner's experience. These features suggest VSC as the preferred colonoscope for patients undergoing unsedated colonoscopy.
Elective irradiation of the groin nodes in the context of initial chemoradiation for locally advanced vulvar cancer is an effective therapy associated with acceptable acute toxicity and minimal late sequelae. It constitutes a sensible alternative to groin dissection in this patient population.
Irradiation is playing a greater role in the management of patients with carcinoma of the vulva; combined with wide local tumor excision or used alone in T1-2 tumors, it is an alternative treatment to radical vulvectomy, with significantly less morbidity. Postradical vulvectomy irradiation in locally advanced tumors improves tumor control at the primary site and the regional lymphatics in comparison with reports of surgery alone.
The PRET program significantly reduced shoulder pain and disability and improved upper extremity muscular strength and endurance in head and neck cancer survivors who had shoulder dysfunction because of spinal accessory nerve damage. Clinicians should consider the addition of PRET in the rehabilitation of postsurgical head and neck cancer survivors.
Ischemic compression therapy provides alternative treatments using either low pressure (pain threshold) and a long duration (90s) or high pressure (the average of pain threshold and pain tolerance) and short duration (30s) for immediate pain relief and MTrP sensitivity suppression. Results suggest that therapeutic combinations such as hot pack plus active ROM and stretch with spray, hot pack plus active ROM and stretch with spray as well as TENS, and hot pack plus active ROM and interferential current as well as myofascial release technique, are most effective for easing MTrP pain and increasing cervical ROM.
Shoulder pain after neck dissection is clinically present in 70% of the patients. Non-selective neck dissection is a risk factor for shoulder pain and a restricted abduction. Reconstruction is a risk factor for a restricted forward flexion of the shoulder.
Imatinib therapy yielded no objective responses and induced considerable toxicity in patients with MTC. A minority of patients had stable disease. Patients with supplemented hypothyroidism or with recurrent nerve palsy are specifically at risk for serious adverse events and need special attention when treated with imatinib.
Patients with ETE are more likely to die of their disease and to fail at all sites. Survival in older patients was not affected by incomplete excision while it was in younger patients. The presence of distant metastasis did not affect survival in younger patients. Our results suggest that among patients under 45, the presence of ETE does not adversely impact upon survival when the primary tumor is completely resected.
Our findings suggest that rosiglitazone treatment may induce radioiodine uptake in some patients with thyroglobulin-positive and radioiodine-negative differentiated thyroid cancer. We found no relationship between the expression level of the PPARgamma mRNA and protein in the neoplasm and radioiodine uptake status after rosiglitazone therapy, questioning the potential pathway of effect.
Laryngoscopic examination is essential for the detection of vocal cord paralysis preoperatively. Symptomatic voice assessment and radiographic evaluation are insufficient. Preoperative vocal cord paralysis tracts with invasive disease and facilitates preoperative recognition of disease extent, allowing for appropriate operative planning and central neck clearance at first operation. Because of the prevalence (approximately 6% in our study) of invasive thyroid disease, the importance of preoperative diagnosis of invasive disease in operative planning and patient counseling, and the importance of vocal cord functional analysis in recurrent laryngeal nerve management algorithms for nerves found infiltrated at operation, and laryngoscopic examination is recommended for all patients undergoing thyroid operation.
Despite a number of previous reports that pulmonary metastases from thyroid carcinoma disappear in approximately half of patients treated with 131-I, evidence of tumor reduction was found in most, but a complete remission occurred in only 2 of 12 patients. Nevertheless, 131-I therapy may be useful to decrease the tumor burden in many such patients.
Age is a significant prognostic factor for LGA. Our analysis suggests that in those patients amenable to a primary tumour excision, a survival benefit may be confined to those under age 50 years.
The majority of patients with LGG present with seizures; in approximately half of these patients, the seizures are pharmacoresistant before surgery. Postoperatively, >90% of these patients are seizure free or have meaningful improvement. A shorter history of seizures and gross-total resection appear to be associated with a favorable prognosis for seizure control.
The authors propose a simple and reliable scoring system that can be used to preoperatively prognosticate the degree of lesion resectability, PFS, and OS in patients with LGGs. The application of a standardized scoring system for LGGs should improve clinical decision-making and allow physicians to reliably predict patient outcome at the time of the original imaging-based diagnosis.
The data from the current study suggested a possible association between surgical resection and survival for neurosurgical patients who underwent surgery for low-grade glioma under intraoperative MRI guidance. Further study within the context of a large, prospective, population-based project will be needed to confirm these findings.
Commonly, conventional conformal RT is applied in the treatment of brain tumors. In FSRT, the tumor volume can be irradiated with high doses, sparing volume of normal brain tissue. Our data are in accordance with survival times found in the literature. Ninety-two percent of all recurrences occurred within the defined target volume, confirming that reduction of the RT portals by the use of FSRT does not lead to an increased rate of recurrences at the field border or out of field. Fractionated stereotactic RT can therefore be implemented as an effective and safe modality in the therapy of primary oligodendroglioma and oligoastrocytoma.
The current findings suggest that LGGs are located preferentially in "secondary" functional areas (immediately near the so-called primary eloquent regions), especially within the SMA and the insular lobe. This preferential localization may be explained by developmental, cytomyeloarchitectonic, neurochemical, metabolic, and functional reasons. A better knowledge of the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying preferential LGGs locations may improve understanding of the genesis and natural history of these tumors and, subsequently, their management.
Management of low-grade gliomas is controversial and practice parameters are ill defined. This is caused by limited knowledge regarding the natural history of these tumors and the lack of high-quality evidence supporting various treatment options. Although a prospective randomized study seems unlikely, both retrospective matched studies and prospective observational trials will improve the clinician's ability to understand the importance of various prognostic factors.
This study showed that a high proportion of patients with medically intractable epilepsy from diffuse gliomas derive a significant and durable benefit from radiotherapy in terms of epilepsy control and that this positive effect is not strictly associated with tumor shrinkage as shown on MRI. Radiotherapy at tumor progression seems as effective as early radiotherapy after surgery. Prospective studies must confirm and better characterize the response to radiotherapy.
Due to the retrospective nature of the study only restricted conclusions can be drawn. Low grade glioma with epilepsy as the single symptom has a much better prognosis than if accompanied by other symptoms. This prognosis is not influenced by the timing of surgery. It seems, therefore, safe to defer surgery until clinical or radiological progression in low grade glioma with epilepsy only.
These data suggest that the incidence and prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma in hepatitis B carriers in our area, an urban North American setting, are as high as in countries where hepatitis B is endemic. Current screening tests have significant false-positive and false-negative rates raising questions about the cost-benefit of screening for hepatocellular carcinoma in our study population.
Screening with AFP resulted in earlier diagnosis of liver cancer, but the gain in lead time did not result in any overall reduction in mortality, because therapy for the patients found by screening was ineffective. Further studies using improved methods of screening, diagnosis and treatment are indicated.
There was a better survival rate for patients with both ER/PR positive and negative tumors treated during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle. This could be the result of progesterone acting on the surrounding peritumoral normal tissue, thereby exerting a straitjacket effect and improving cohesion of the primary carcinoma. Unopposed estrogen in the follicular phase of the cycle may enable more tumor emboli to escape and successfully establish micrometastases.
Surgical procedures which are more extensive than a fine needle aspiration biopsy might be associated with worse prognosis if conducted during the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle. This phenomenon was seen predominantly for high risk breast cancer with low levels or no estrogen receptors in the primary tumor.
The shape of the survival curve contradicted the idea that it could be explained by levels of circulating estradiol or progesterone. Because observations that surgery was affected by menstrual timing seem not to have persisted beyond the mid-1980s, this study should not be used to support recommendations that surgeons perform breast carcinoma surgery on any particular day of the menstrual cycle.
Both treatment arms had an acceptable safety profile. These data imply that the results on survival will be the major determinant for the selection of either strategy. Capecitabine plus irinotecan appears to be a feasible first-line treatment for patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma.
Voriconazole is at least as effective as amphotericin B in the treatment of acute invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. It has similar efficacy as fluconazole in treatment of esophageal candidiasis. Voriconazole did not achieve statistical non-inferiority to liposomal amphotericin B for empirical therapy in patients with neutropenia and persistent fever, diminishing enthusiasm for use in this indication until additional trials are completed. Based on case reports and in vitro efficacy, voriconazole may prove to be a clinically useful agent in the treatment of other fungal disease.
The use of statins was associated with a 47 percent relative reduction in the risk of colorectal cancer after adjustment for other known risk factors. Because the absolute risk reduction is likely low, further investigation of the overall benefits of statins in preventing colorectal cancer is warranted.
Patients with advanced vulvar cancer that are managed with PS tend to be older patients that have smaller lesions but positive lymph nodes, whereas patients requiring PCRT are younger and have larger volume disease but fewer lymph node metastases. Despite these differences, patients treated with PS and PCRT have no differences in OS, PFS, or recurrence rates. Age is the most powerful predictor of survival when size, lymph node status, stage and treatment are accounted for.
Intensity-modulated RT appears to offer advantages over 3D CRT treatment of vulvar cancer by elimination of dose modulation across overlapping regions and reduction of unnecessary dose to the bladder, rectum, and small bowel. Early results with a small number of patients show promising results, with a low incidence of severe toxicity.
Survival among the minimal and low risk groups is preserved in spite of less radical surgery. 5-year survival rate for intermediate and high risk patients also appears to be improved. This is likely a result of advancement in adjuvant chemo-radiation and a younger patient population that presents with less advanced disease.
Doses of RT among GCIG members are similar; however, the indications for treatment, treatment fields, and use of chemotherapy differ somewhat between groups. This is likely due to the rarity of the disease. The lack of randomized trials may contribute to the absence of a broadly accepted standard. This underscores the importance of international cooperation as in GCIG to gather more reliable data for uncommon tumors in gynecologic oncology.
PE is a feasible technique with no post-operative mortality and high percentage of long-survivors, although the morbidity rate still remains significantly high. Careful patient selection, pre- and post-operative care and optimal surgical skills in a Gynecologic Oncologic Center are the cornerstones to further improve quality of life and survival for these patients.
Complex surgery for ovarian cancer cytoreduction carries a survival benefit at increased direct medical cost. However, preliminary cost-effectiveness results suggest complex surgery provides good value for money spent. Future research on the cost and quality of life implications of surgical morbidity during follow-up is warranted to formally assess the cost-effectiveness of complex vs. simple surgical procedures.
Patients requiring extensive upper abdominal procedures to achieve optimal cytoreduction demonstrated a similar initial response, progression-free survival, and overall survival to patients optimally cytoreduced by standard surgical techniques. The presence of bulky upper abdominal disease alone did not appear to indicate poor tumor biology. This initial maximal surgical effort was associated with improved survival in patients who would have otherwise been suboptimally cytoreduced.
Our results may encourage the application of extended surgical procedures in patients who would otherwise be rendered incompletely debulked after primary cytoreduction. We could demonstrate an impact of complete tumor resection on patient prognosis and this was not traded off for extensive additional surgical morbidity.
Diaphragmatic surgery during interval debulking enhances optimal cytoreduction rates and improves survival with acceptable and manageable morbidity. In patients with thick (>4 mm) or large (>1 cm) lesions, stripping the diaphragm or full-thickness resection of the diaphragmatic muscle is preferred.
Diaphragmatic surgery increases the rates of optimal primary debulking surgery and improves survival with an acceptable and manageable morbidity rate. In patients with thick (>0.3 cm) or large (>4 cm) lesions stripping the diaphragm or full thickness resection of the diaphragmatic muscle is preferred.
A range of surgical objectives, strategies, procedures used, and outcomes exists among gynecologic oncologists. Confirmation of the efficacy of cytoreductive surgery may cultivate a consensus about the most appropriate therapeutic objective and strategy for advanced ovarian cancer. Cooperative efforts should be undertaken to offer postfellowship training.
This retrospective study demonstrated that bowel involvement in ovarian cancer had a bad prognosis and that survival in these patients could not substantially be prolonged when the affected parts of bowel were resected. To further substantiate these findings, future studies on advanced ovarian cancer should differentiate between patients with and without bowel involvement.
We present evidence that hepatic resection can be performed with minimal surgical morbidity and mortality by surgical teams trained in the procedures. Because of the disease-related survival advantage afforded women by optimal cytoreductive surgery, parenchymal liver metastases should not preclude secondary cytoreductive surgical efforts.
We describe the first blood biomarker test with a sensitivity of 95.3% and a specificity of 99.4% for the detection of ovarian cancer. Six markers provided a significant improvement over CA-125 alone for ovarian cancer detection. Validation was performed with a blinded cohort. This novel multiplex platform has the potential for efficient screening in patients who are at high risk for ovarian cancer.
Our psychosocial support program did not improve HRQL in H&N cancer patients. Its effectiveness may be improved by evaluating and actively integrating HRQL assessments during the program, thereby enabling rapid and adequate symptomatic treatment and/or psychologic intervention.
This study suggests that head and neck cancer patients with post-treatment psychosocial dysfunction can benefit from a problem-focused psychosocial intervention. Such evidence can inform practice, policy and future research, aimed at improving post-treatment quality of life for patients with head and neck cancer.
This simple, low cost intervention improved breast screening rates modestly. Improvement was greatest in Indian women--probably because many practice staff shared their cultural and linguistic background. This intervention could be effective as part of a multifaceted strategy to improve uptake in areas with low rates.
Attenders and non-attenders differ in two broad areas: the health related behaviours they engage in and the attitudes, beliefs, and intentions they have towards breast cancer and breast screening. The latter are potentially amenable to change, and though different factors may operate among women who do not respond to questionnaires, the findings offer hope that attendance rates can be improved by targeting the relevant attitudes and beliefs. This could be done by changing the invitation letter and its accompanying literature, through national and local publicity campaigns, and by advice given by GPs, practice nurses, and other health professionals. It is essential that such interventions are properly evaluated, preferably in randomised controlled studies.
The intervention promoted minimal movement in the stages of change for mammography. Outcall interventions may have promise for encouraging repeat mammography behavior, but more intensive interventions are likely to be necessary to promote behavior change among nonadherent women.
Same-day mammography availability increased 3-, 6-, and 12-month screening mammography adherence rates in this urban academic general medicine practice. The effect was most marked among women aged 65 years or older, women who were not employed, and those who had had fewer than 3 mammograms in the last 5 years. The efficacy of this intervention in other settings still needs to be demonstrated.
The main contributions of GP involvement can be: "cleaning up" the invitation lists, especially when computerized archives with the mammographic history of the target population are not available; increasing the women's participation by signing the invitation letter, by counseling and active participation in the invitation phase; co-operating in the reminder phase by recalling women non responders at first invitation. The offer of target payment had a certain impact on the screening uptake, but not easily distinguishable from GP signature of the invitation letter; further studies of appropriate design should be planned. Organizational factors, such as availability of a list of non-responders, might be crucial in order to enhance the effect of the GPs' action.
These results suggest that the combination of community-directed mammography education and access to mammography appointments encourages mammography use primarily by women who are already predisposed to having mammography. However, individually targeted and tailored interventions may be needed to encourage mammography use among women who have never had mammography and/or express no intention of having it done.
The credit card was designed to show the participant's screening anniversary, and the durability of the card may have been a factor in increasing the return rate. The use of reminder credit cards may increase compliance for periodic screening examinations for other cancers and other chronic diseases.
A personal letter from the GP seems to be at least as effective at increasing the uptake of breast screening in non-attenders as a nurse making a home visit to discuss the issue of breast screening, and is not noticeably less effective than a visit at which a health education intervention is delivered. It is possible that the GP letter is considerably more effective than either of the two interview-based interventions. With regard to implementing strategies which will increase breast screening uptake and are cost effective, further trials of similar minimal interventions in primary care are required.
Personalized education and case management are successful in enhancing compliance with breast cancer screening among historically noncompliant vulnerable urban women. This intervention, when combined with a preventive care information system, has the potential to achieve Healthy People 2000 objectives for breast cancer screening.
In nonresected mature B-cell lymphoma of childhood and adolescence with no BM or CNS involvement, a 93% cure rate can be achieved, similar to the French-American-British/LMB 96 trial. Patients with primary DLBC mediastinal mass had a significantly reduced OS, indicating the need for a different therapeutic approach.
six courses of fixed or flexible PE-C or PI-C can determine a promising success rate in patients with advanced aggressive NHL with IPI 0-2, whereas the same regimens are less effective in patients with IPI 3-5, even if two additional courses are delivered. For the latter group of patients innovative approaches are warranted.
BL/BLL in adolescents and adults can successfully be treated with 5-day blocks of intensified chemotherapy such as the BFM regimen or CHOP/methotrexate-based chemotherapy consolidated with high-dose therapy. Using the BFM regimen, continuous remissions are obtained without additional myeloablative chemotherapy.
The increase in colonoscopy costs associated with imperfect preparation is substantial, and seems likely to vary among practices. Aborted examinations and surveillance examinations performed earlier than recommended because of imperfect preparation are appropriate targets for continuous quality improvement programs. More reliable bowel preparations, or measures to improve patient compliance with bowel preparation, could significantly reduce the costs of colonoscopy in clinical practice.
In children with low-risk FN, the efficacy of first-day step-down to oral antimicrobial therapy with amoxicillin and ciprofloxacin in an outpatient setting was non-inferior to continued hospitalization and intravenous antimicrobial therapy. The safety of this procedure, however, was not assessable with sufficient power.
In children with LRFN who are receiving treatment for malignant disease, outpatient oral ciprofloxacin after 24 hours of a single dose of intravenous ceftriaxone and amikacin was as safe and efficacious as parenteral ceftriaxone. Outpatient management and early antibiotic withdrawal were safe for both groups.
The current study demonstrates that very carefully selected, low risk patients with febrile neutropenia may be treated successfully without hospitalization using oral ciprofloxacin. Additional research is required to refine further the optimal criteria for the selection of appropriate patients for outpatient management.
Use of oral, single-agent, broad-spectrum fluoroquinolones for outpatient treatment of FN in low-risk patients has shown promising results. At this time, this type of therapy should be limited to low-risk patients. Future clinical trials should include larger sample sizes and a comparison with existing first-line oral therapy-oral ciprofloxacin plus amoxicillin/clavulanate.
Outpatient treatment of low-risk febrile neutropenic cancer patients utilizing standard treatment pathways is associated with minimal morbidity and mortality and should be considered an acceptable standard of care with appropriate infrastructure available to provide strict and careful follow-up while on treatment. Certain factors are associated with higher risk of hospitalization and should be further examined in eligible patients with low-risk febrile neutropenia.
US oncologists, who responded are willing to prescribe outpatient oral antibiotic treatment for low-risk FN, although practices vary considerably and are based on favorable clinical factors. However, practices are often employed that are not recommended for low-risk patients by current guidelines, including fluoroquinolone prophylaxis, adjunctive and/or prophylactic growth factors, and use of levofloxacin for empiric therapy. Educational efforts are needed to better guide cost-effective and supportive care.
In this description of the spectrum of infections in the largest cohort of low-risk febrile neutropenic patients to date, episodes of unexplained fever were predominant, but gram-positive, gram-negative, and polymicrobial infections also were documented. Although these patients were at low risk for complications, they required broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy when they developed neutropenic fever.
In febrile neutropenic children after anticancer therapy and lower risk features, oral ciprofloxacin for 6 days after 24 hours of intravenous ceftraxione plus amikacin appears to be as efficacious as intravenous ceftriaxone plus amikacin for 2 days more followed by cefixime for 4 additional days. These results contribute to strengthen the concept of LRFN.
In only a minority of episodes can outpatient antibiotic management be implemented. Medical comorbidities and social barriers can make the transition to outpatient care difficult. However, initial hospitalization followed by oral antibiotic outpatient management appears safe and effective for low-risk patients who exhibit good responses to initial antibiotic therapy in hospital.
Patients who satisfy prospectively defined criteria for early discharge can be treated safely on an out-patient basis with a regimen of once daily ceftriaxone plus an aminoglycoside with filgrastim. In addition to reducing healthcare costs, it may improve patients' quality of life.
This is one of the largest series of patients diagnosed with synchronous, solitary brain metastasis from NSCLC treated with GKSRS. Definitive thoracic therapy and KPS significantly impacted OS. The 5-year OS of 21% demonstrates the potential for long-term survival in patients treated with GKSRS; therefore, patients with good KPS should be considered for definitive thoracic therapy.
Our findings correspond well with those reported in the literature and suggest that surgical resection of single brain metastasis in patients with non-small cell lung cancer can improve survival over conservative management. Furthermore, surgical treatment of the primary tumor and the single brain metastasis, combined or not with radiotherapy and chemotherapy, represents an approach that merits further investigation with more patients and a prospective longitudinal design.
A time-effective, practice-based strategy led to a significant improvement in knowledge of end-of-life care. Prior to implementation of this strategy competency in end-of-life care was suboptimal among internal medicine residents, in spite of desirable attitudes. Factual knowledge improved slightly with standard, pre-intervention training and experience.
In general, most measures have not undergone rigorous development and testing. Measure development in end-of-life care should focus on areas with identified gaps, and testing should be done to facilitate comparability across the care settings, populations, and clinical conditions. Intervention research should use robust measures that adhere to these standards.
The survival rate following HR of solitary colorectal liver metastasis exceeds 70% at 5 years. Radiofrequency ablation for solitary metastasis is associated with a markedly higher LR rate and shorter recurrence-free and overall survival rates compared with HR, even when small lesions (< or = 3 cm) are considered. Every method should be considered to achieve resection of solitary colorectal liver metastasis, including referral to a specialty center, extended hepatectomy, and chemotherapy.
HR had better outcomes than RFA for recurrence and survival after treatment of solitary colorectal liver metastases. However, in tumors smaller than 3 cm, RFA can be recommended as an alternative treatment to patients who are not candidates for surgery because the liver metastases is poorly located anatomically, the functional hepatic reserve after a resection would be insufficient, the patient's comorbidity inhibits a major surgery, or extrahepatic metastases are present.
Ablation combined with hepatic resection is rarely necessary or applicable. However, in selected patients whose tumors were otherwise unresectable, additional use of ablation allows effective clearance of disease. In these patients with extensive bilobar disease, recurrence rates are high, but long-term survival is encouraging and may be improved with aggressive postoperative chemotherapy.
Local tumor progression is common after percutaneous RFA. Surgical resection remains the gold standard treatment for patients who are candidates for resection. For patients who are poor candidates for resection, RFA may help to manage local disease, but close follow-up and retreatment are necessary to achieve optimal results.
While 5-year survival following surgery for colorectal liver metastasis approaches 50%, over one-half of patients develop recurrence within 2 years. The pattern of failure is distributed relatively equally among intrahepatic, extrahepatic, and intra- plus extrahepatic sites. Patients undergoing repeat surgery for recurrent metastasis have similar patterns of recurrence and RFS time.
In patients with unresectable colorectal liver metastases, CSA and RFA can be used either alone or as an effective adjunct to resection in achieving complete tumour clearance of the liver. More widespread use of these techniques seems promising but requires further investigation in randomized trials comparing local ablative treatment with chemotherapy.
Radiofrequency coagulation by laparoscopy or laparotomy results in superior local control, independent of tumor size. The percutaneous route should mainly be reserved for patients who cannot tolerate a laparoscopy or laparotomy. The short-term benefits of less invasiveness for the percutaneous route do not outweigh the longer-term higher risk of local recurrence.
Local recurrence rate after open RFA for CRLM <3 cm seems to be equivalent to resection. A randomized trial under strict conditions would be justified in this subgroup of patients. A randomized trial is currently not justified for larger tumors or for percutaneous or laparoscopic RFA, since local recurrence rates in these groups are too high to be acceptable for resectable tumors.
To our knowledge, this is both the largest and longest follow-up of RFA for colorectal metastases. The number and dominant size of metastases, and preoperative chorioembryonic antigen value are strong predictors of survival. Despite classic teaching, extrahepatic disease did not adversely affect survival. In this group of patients who failed chemotherapy, newer treatment regimens (pre- or postoperatively) had no survival benefit. The actual 5-year survival of 18.4% in these patients versus near zero survival for chemotherapy alone argues for a survival benefit of RFA.
The addition of 1 year of adjuvant trastuzumab significantly improved disease-free and overall survival among women with HER2-positive breast cancer. The risk-benefit ratio favored the nonanthracycline TCH regimen over AC-T plus trastuzumab, given its similar efficacy, fewer acute toxic effects, and lower risks of cardiotoxicity and leukemia. (Funded by Sanofi-Aventis and Genentech; BCIRG-006 ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Patients with HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer are at risk for isolated CNS progression, reflecting improved peripheral tumor control and patient survival through use of trastuzumab-based therapy, and a relative lack of CNS activity with trastuzumab. Clinicians should be aware of this association. Better treatments for CNS recurrences are needed.
All the three types of anastomosis were demonstrated to be equally safe in early postoperative outcome. A longer follow-up showed a significantly lower incidence of reoperation recurrence in the stapled and hand-sewn side-to-side anastomosis compared to the stapled end-to-side anastomosis group. This result may suggest the configuration of the anastomosis as the key point in the recurrence of anastomotic Crohn's disease.
Side-to-side anastomosis configuration seems to delay re-operation and can be assumed as the standard configuration in ileocolonic anastomosis in CD. Post-operative complications and young age at disease onset might be a signal of aggressive CD that may warrant prophylactic pharmacological therapy.
Although the follow-up duration was short in the stapled group, these results suggest that stapled functional end-to-end ileocolonic anastomosis is associated with a lower incidence of complications and that early anastomotic recurrence is less common than after sutured end-to-end anastomosis. However, a randomized trial would be necessary to draw clear conclusions.
End-to-end anastomosis after resection for Crohn's disease may be associated with increased anastomotic leak rates. Side-to-side anastomosis may lead to fewer anastomotic leaks and overall postoperative complications, a shorter hospital stay, and a perianastomotic recurrence rate comparable to end-to-end anastomosis. Further randomized, controlled trials should be performed for confirmation.
The treatment of prostate cancer cells with pharmacological concentrations of melatonin influences not only androgen-sensitive but also androgen-insensitive epithelial prostate cancer cells. Cell differentiation promoted by melatonin is not mediated by PKA activation although it increases, in a transitory manner, intracellular cAMP levels. Melatonin markedly influences the proliferative status of prostate cancer cells. These effects should be evaluated thoroughly since melatonin levels are diminished in aged individuals when prostate cancer typically occurs.
No significant differences in terms of myelotoxicity or drug delivery were observed between the two treatment arms. Although the myeloprotective effect of the prechemotherapy administration of GM-CSF seems to be minimal, the data indicate a safe timing between GM-CSF discontinuation and further chemotherapy. Because cumulative myelotoxicity has been observed with other growth factors, given in the interval between the chemotherapy cycles, this may be relevant to the planning of rapid cycling.
rhGM-CSF can be administered safely to patients with Hodgkin's disease and results in improved hematologic recovery after MOPP. Full-dose chemotherapy can be administered on time, resulting in an increase in the overall tolerated dose of myelosuppressive drugs when compared with historical controls. SC administration proved to be at least as effective as continuous IV infusion and should be preferred.
Administration of G-CSF is associated with an acceleration of neutrophil recovery, indicating its potential to reduce the risk of infection. The use of G-CSF permitted us to administer intensive chemotherapy without delay and according to standard dosage, with an improved response rate.
CSFs are recommended in some situations, eg, to reduce the likelihood of febrile neutropenia when the expected incidence is > or = 40%; after documented febrile neutropenia in a prior chemotherapy cycle to avoid infectious complications and maintain dose-intensity in subsequent treatment cycles when chemotherapy dose-reduction is not appropriate; and after high-dose chemotherapy with autologous progenitor-cell transplantation. CSFs are also effective in the mobilization of peripheral-blood progenitor cells. Therapeutic initiation of CSFs in addition to antibiotics at the onset of febrile neutropenia should be reserved for patients at high risk for septic complications. CSF use in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes may be reasonable if they are experiencing neutropenic infections. Administration of CSFs after initial chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia does not appear to be detrimental, but clinical benefit has been variable and caution is advised. Available data support use of CSFs in pediatric cancer patients similar to that recommended for adult patients. Outside of clinical trials, CSFs should not be used concurrently with chemotherapy and radiation, or to support increasing chemotherapy dose-intensity. Further research is warranted as a means to improve the cost-effective administration of the CSFs and identify clinical predictors of infectious complications that may direct their use.
Febrile neutropenia and infection cause significant morbidity and mortality in patients receiving combination chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced-stage NHL. Secondary prophylactic G-CSF therapy has been proven to decrease the incidence of febrile neutropenia and infection in these patients. Considering the reduction in neutropenic complications and resulting increase in chemotherapy dose intensity received by patients on G-CSF, the theoretical incremental cost per life year saved of $3300 with G-CSF therapy is relatively low compared with other medical interventions.
The combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide is a well-tolerated and effective treatment regimen for patients with relapsed CLL and low-grade NHL. A higher percentage of complete responses were noted in patients with low-grade NHL compared with patients with CLL. Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor did not seem to decrease the incidence of febrile neutropenia. However, the higher number of complete and partial responses noted on the GM-CSF arm is intriguing and warrants further investigation.
A majority of patients did not gain weight, and in that sense, the results of the study were unfavorable. However, a small but definite subset of patients had weight stabilization or weight gain. This suggests that omega-3 fatty acids have potential utility at the study doses, which were more than twice the doses used in published Phase III studies.
Supplemental enteral feeding significantly increased plasma and peripheral white blood cell omega 3/omega 6 ratios and significantly decreased PGE2 production and postoperative infectious/wound complications compared with standard enteral feeding. For outpatients receiving adjuvant therapy, those initially randomized to oral feedings alone required rehospitalization more frequently, and 61% crossed over to supplemental enteral feedings.
The treatment has been shown to be effective for clinical response, increase of lean body mass, decrease of reactive oxygen species and proinflammatory cytokines, and improvement of quality of life. The treatment has been shown to be safe with good compliance of patients. The study is in progress (14 further patients will be included).
Early enteral feeding with an arginine, dietary nucleotides, and omega-3 fatty acids supplemented diet, as well as an isonitrogenous, isocaloric control diet (placebo) were well tolerated in patients who underwent upper gastrointestinal surgery. In patients who received the supplemented diet, a significant reduction in the frequency rate of late postoperative infectious and wound complications was observed. Thereby, the treatment costs were substantially reduced in the immunonutrition group as compared with the control group.
The results of early enteral feeding with FOSL-HN after surgery in this follow-up study provide further support to claims of safety, tolerance, and improved physiologic function. There was an associated reduction in eicosanoid production from PBMCs, which is presumed to be the principal mechanism for these effects.
Compared with standard formula, perioperative nutritional supplementation with Impact significantly reduced the incidence of infectious complications. The length of hospitalization was significantly prolonged in patients with postoperative infections, suggesting potential cost savings with the use of immune-enhancing formulas such as Impact.
rHuEPO is important as a therapeutic means to correct anemia. rHuEPO is likely to be useful in correcting chronic anemias or anemias associated with chemotherapy, particularly in those patients with expected long-term survival. Issues to be resolved include the accurate prediction and targeting of rHuEPO therapy for patients most likely to respond.
Malignant cells identified regularly in the blood shed during tumor surgery and different from circulating tumor cells are of concern, since at the surgical site they may cause local tumor recurrence, or in the salvaged blood they may cause hematogenic metastasis after retransfusion. Therefore, the contraindication of intraoperative autotransfusion in tumor surgery is strongly supported, and a review of surgical procedures and adjuvant therapy may be indicated, as the passage of the identified cells to the shed blood is yet unknown.
Simple criteria available to the clinician at the time of evaluation of the child with cancer who has fever and neutropenia allow the selection of a population at low risk for bacteremia or serious medical complication. A prospective study is planned using these risk criteria, evaluating outpatient oral antibiotic therapy in low-risk children with cancer.
Septic shock in neutropenic patients is associated with increased protein C consumption. The data demonstrate that the coagulation cascade is activated and produces a hypercoagulable state before the onset of clinical symptoms of severe sepsis and septic shock. Low protein C concentrations at the onset of fever and before the onset of clinical symptoms of severe sepsis or septic shock may have prognostic value in predicting an unfavorable outcome. Protein C measurements may help identify patients at risk in an early phase of neutropenic sepsis. It is also attractive to speculate that because low protein C concentrations were seen in these patients, protein C replacement may be beneficial in sepsis.
Paclitaxel can be safely administered in a 1-hour infusion in an outpatient setting, either as a single dose or in divided doses for three days. Severe hypersensitivity reactions did not occur in 162 treatment courses, and neutropenia was mild in most patients. Incorporation of this dose and these schedules of paclitaxel into combination chemotherapy regimens should be feasible. An investigation of higher paclitaxel doses given in a 1-hour infusion is currently in progress.
In Maryland Medicaid, the odds of cancer screening and related acute care visits were greater for women with major mental disorders compared with women in the control group. For women with substance use disorders, however, screening was reduced and acute care visits were similar compared with women in the control group. Providers should encourage and support their patients with substance use disorders to increase use of preventive care services by primary care physicians and gynecologists.
Despite increasing clinical research focused on the extremely high prevalence of smoking in schizophrenia, linkages to the prodigious preclinical data about nicotine and nicotinic receptors are largely unexplored. These linkages are likely to be very important. Integrating nicotine use into our clinical and basic models of schizophrenia leads to a more complex but more realistic representation of brain dysfunction in this illness. Understanding how and why schizophrenic individuals use nicotine may lead to the development of new treatments for both schizophrenia and nicotine dependence.
MG patients can have normal pregnancy and delivery but the course is unpredictable. Shorter disease history and infection predispose to puerperal exacerbation. Maternal thymectomy lessens the likelihood of neonatal myasthenia. An interdisciplinary approach is required for managing the pregnant women with MG.
The results of this review show that anti-tumour treatment is recommended for patients with the paraneoplastic form of LEMS and that one RCT has shown that immunomodulating treatments should be initiated when symptomatic treatments do not provide satisfactory results. A number of RCTs have shown that 3,4-DAP is effective in symptomatic treatment of patients with LEMS and has been recommended as first-line symptomatic treatment of patients with LEMS. The 3,4-DAP phosphate salt formulation was shown to be safe and effective in the treatment of LEMS with a positive benefit:risk ratio.
The sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value of FOBT are difficult to estimate from screening programs, because Hemoccult-negative individuals do not undergo examination of the colon, and many of the Hemoccult-positive cases do not undergo total colonoscopy. With total colonoscopy serving as the gold standard, FOBT does not appear to be of much value as an ancillary examination in patients with symptoms potentially attributable to the lower gastrointestinal tract.
The risk of leukemia after treatment for Ewing's sarcoma is probably in the range of 2%. The risk of solid tumors also seems to be low within the first 10 years after treatment and remains in the range of 5 % after 15 years. In the CESS-studies, less than 1% of all deaths within the first 10 years after diagnosis were caused by SM. Effective salvage therapy for secondary sarcomas is feasible.
Adolescents who received treatment for rhabdomyosarcoma experienced significantly less hematologic toxicity and more peripheral nervous system toxicity compared with younger children despite receiving similar amounts of chemotherapy. Although outcomes were inferior in adolescents, it was unclear whether the differences in toxicity observed in the current study had an impact on outcome. The authors concluded that future studies examining the age-related and sex-related differences in pharmacokinetics of chemotherapy are necessary.
A 64% increase in the standard cyclophosphamide dosage during induction (to 3.6 g/m2/cycle) was tolerated. However, outcomes were similar to those observed at lower dosages, suggesting that alkylator dose intensification does not benefit patients with intermediate-risk rhabdomyosarcoma.
Premenopausal women with ER-negative (i.e., endocrine nonresponsive), lymph node-negative breast cancer should receive adjuvant chemotherapy. For patients with ER-positive (i.e., endocrine responsive) disease, the combination of chemotherapy with ovarian function suppression or other endocrine agents, and the use of endocrine therapy alone should be studied.
This is the first systematic review of methods for diagnosing urinary incontinence. As reporting of the primary studies was poor, clinical interpretation was often difficult because few studies could be synthesised and conclusions made. The report found that a large proportion of women with USI can be correctly diagnosed in primary care from clinical history alone. On the basis of diagnosis the diary appears to be the most cost-effective of the three primary care tests (diary, pad test and validated scales) used in addition to clinical history. Ultrasound imaging may offer a valuable alternative to urodynamic investigation. The clinical stress test is effective in the diagnosis of USI. Adaptation of such a test so that it could be performed in primary care with a naturally filled bladder may prove clinically useful. If a patient is to undergo an invasive urodynamic procedure, multichannel urodynamics is likely to give the most accurate result in a secondary care setting. There is a dearth of literature on the diagnosis of urinary incontinence in men, with no studies meeting the study criteria for data extraction in the diagnosis of bladder outlet obstruction. There is a need for large-scale, high-quality primary studies evaluating the use of a number of diagnostic methods in a primary care setting to be undertaken so that the results of this systematic review can be verified or not. Such studies should include not only an assessment of clinical effectiveness, in this case diagnostic accuracy, but also an assessment of costs and quality of life/satisfaction to inform future health policy decisions. Studies carried out should be reported to a better standard. The recommendations of the Standards for Reporting Diagnostic Accuracy (STARD) initiative should be followed to ensure the accuracy and completeness of reporting design and results.
In this large community-based gastroenterology practice, we observed greater rates of detection of adenomas among endoscopists who had longer mean times for withdrawal of the colonoscope. The effect of variation in withdrawal times on lesion detection and the prevention of colorectal cancer in the context of widespread colonoscopic screening is not known. Ours was a preliminary study, so the generalizability and implications for clinical practice need to be determined by future studies.
This is the first prospective study to address the safety and medium-term efficacy of retroflexion endoscopic resection in the colon. When appropriate exclusion criteria are applied, selected patients can receive curative resection using the retroflexion technique. "Salvage" endoluminal therapy may therefore be possible in such cases when surgical resection would otherwise have been required.
Based on our prospective randomized trial, CE permits more accurate diagnosis of the extent and severity of the inflammatory activity in UC compared with conventional colonoscopy. In addition, CE with methylene blue is a novel tool for the early detection of IN and CRC in patients with UC. These findings have important implications for medical and surgical interventions.
Colonoscopic surveillance of chronic colitis patients using methylene blue dye-spray targeted biopsies results in improved dysplasia yield compared to conventional random and targeted biopsy methods. Accordingly, this technique warrants incorporation into clinical practice in this setting and consideration as a standard of care for these patients. The value of multiple random biopsies as a surveillance technique should be revisited.
No dysplasia was detected in 2904 non-targeted biopsies. In comparison, a targeted biopsy protocol with pancolonic chromoendoscopy required fewer biopsies (157) yet detected nine dysplastic lesions, seven of which were only visible after indigo carmine application. Careful mucosal examination aided by pancolonic chromoendoscopy and targeted biopsies of suspicious lesions may be a more effective surveillance methodology than taking multiple non-targeted biopsies.
Scheduling of colonoscopies in the afternoon compared to the morning may be an independent predictor of an incomplete colonoscopy and inadequate bowel preparation. According to our study findings, scheduling of all outpatient colonoscopies preferentially in the morning would avoid suboptimal procedures in 5% of patients and the need for unnecessary repeat colonoscopy or an alternative imaging study in 2.4% of patients.
Fludarabine used in previously treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia may be associated with infections involving T-cell dysfunction, such as listeriosis, pneumocystosis, mycobacterial infections, and opportunistic fungal and viral infections. Prophylaxis or presumptive therapy should be initiated in the appropriate setting.
The current study showed that HD-CLB is an effective and well-tolerated therapeutic option for patients with advanced and/or progressive CLL. Therefore, the authors recommend its wider use, possibly in comparison with and/ or in combination with new therapeutic agents, such as purine analogues.
We conclude that this problem-solving therapy-based home care training intervention is an effective method of helping the majority of women with breast carcinoma to reduce the stresses associated with the diagnosis and treatment of cancer in mid-life.
A method was developed for evaluating outcomes of nursing care in complex situations such as care of people who are dying. Positive outcomes of care for patients that were directly attributable to the care provided by Macmillan specialist palliative care nurses were found for the majority of patients. For a small number of patients, negative outcomes of care were identified.
This study reminds us that breast cancer and menopause are independent issues. Quality of life parameters need to be rigidly defined and time sensitive. There are complex interactions between quality of life indicators and specific physiologic consequences of treatment. However, menopausal signs and symptoms may not be different for the breast cancer survivor and they should not be confused with the quality of life/psychosocial issues of the cancer survivor.
The introduction of this method, endoscopic mucosal resection using a cap fitted panendoscope, is expected to permit additional indications for endoscopic treatment. Endoscopic Nd-YAG laser irradiation was applied mainly to early gastric cancer lesions (32 patients), usually for relative indications for endoscopic treatment. This procedure is safe and advantageous in that it requires no hospitalisation, permits fractionated irradiation, and secures good QOL.
Despite a similar incidence of staple-ring defects, a strikingly lower rate of clinically and radiologically detected leaks developed in patients submitted to omentoplasty. Although not affecting the incidence of anastomotic disruption, omentoplasty seems to contain the severity of anastomotic leakage.
We found large differences in NI frequency and microbial epidemiology in this European study. Viruses were the main pathogens in general pediatrics units. Catheter-related sepsis and CNS were frequent in newborns. A high frequency of multiresistant bacteria was observed in some units. Clinical monitoring of NIs and bacterial resistance profiles are required in all pediatric units.
The role of corticosteroids needs further elucidation. More patients need to be recruited in order to obtain more precise results. Further trials should include quality of life measures as primary outcomes as well as most effective type of corticosteroid, dose or dosing regime, route of administration and morbidity.
Short-term use of megestrol acetate results in significant weight gain and improved pulmonary function in malnourished subjects with CF. Our study provides a controlled basis for this intervention, identifies important side effects, and provides the foundation for multiyear, longitudinal trials in a larger number of patients with CF.
In geriatric patients with weight loss or low body weight MA improves appetite and well-being after 12 weeks of treatment. During the 3 months of MA treatment, there was no statistically significant weight gain (> or =4 lbs). Three months after treatment, weight gain (> or =4 lbs) was significantly increased in MA-treated patients.
Clinically significant weight gain is associated with some commonly prescribed medicines. There is wide interindividual variation in response and variation of the degree of weight gain within drug classes. Where possible, alternative therapy should be selected, especially for individuals predisposed to overweight and obesity.
Wasting associated with HIV has a high morbidity and mortality rate if not adequately managed. Therapeutic strategies include appetite stimulants, cytokine inhibitors, and growth-promoting agents. Selection of the appropriate agent(s) depends on the underlying cause for weight loss, adverse effects, and cost of therapy.
HIV-related wasting continues to be common among HIV-infected drug users, even among HAART recipients. Food insecurity and viral load were the only independent predictors of wasting. The social and economic conditions affecting the lifestyle of HIV-infected drug users constitute a challenge for prevention and treatment of wasting.
Results suggested a gender-dependent attenuation of expected physiologic responses to weight loss among cancer cachexia patients. Thus, impaired response of adiponectin, ghrelin, and leptin may play a role in the pathogenesis of cancer cachexia syndrome.
Resection of the pylorus with stomach preservation significantly reduces the frequency of DGE after PD without showing any disadvantage when compared with standard ppPD. This finding could be of high relevance for the clinical practice in routine PD and should consequently be investigated in a large randomized multicenter trial to create further evidence.
Cancer mortality predictions for 2014 confirm the overall favorable cancer mortality trend in the EU, translating to an overall 26% fall in men since its peak in 1988, and 20% in women, and the avoidance of over 250,000 deaths in 2014 compared with the peak rate. Notable exceptions are female lung cancer and pancreatic cancer in both sexes.
This large observational study demonstrates an improvement in operative mortality for patients undergoing pancreatectomy for neoplastic disease from 1998 to 2003. In addition, a greater proportion of pancreatectomies were performed at high-volume centers in 2003. The regionalization of pancreatic surgery may have partially contributed to the observed decrease in mortality rates.
Early stage disease, female gender, younger age, geographic location, and more recent time periods are predictors of receiving CIS. Early disease stage and receipt of CIS are the strongest predictors of improved survival among patients with pancreatic cancer. Black race is an independent predictor of shorter survival.
These data suggest that cystic pancreatic neoplasms 1) occur in 0.7% of patients, 2) increase in 19% over 16 months, and 3) are likely (60%) to be malignant in patients older than 70 years. Therefore, we recommend surgical excision for pancreatic cysts that are increasing under observation, symptomatic, or detected radiologically in fit older patients.
PPPD had advantages over PRPD in operating time, intraoperative blood loss and red blood cell transfusions, but had a significantly higher rate of DGE for periampullary and pancreatic carcinoma. PPPD and PRPD had comparable mortality and morbidity including pancreatic fistulas, wound infections, postoperative bleeding, biliary leakage, ascites and gastroenterostomy leakage. Our conclusions were limited by the available data. Further evaluations of high-quality RCTs are needed.
We found no evidence of a statistically significant difference in outcome by type of scan. For future survival analyses of MIBG Curie scores, ¹²³I-MIBG and ¹³¹I-MIBG results may be combined and analyzed overall, without adjustment for scan type.
The quality of mlBG scans proved to be at least acceptable in most Italian pediatric oncology centers. Efforts should be made to further standardize evaluation of the scans. Additional techniques (99mTc scintigraphy, MRI, SPECT) might be useful to help understand the most complex cases.
A number of important physiological areas of uptake in soft tissues can lead to false-positive interpretations of normal scans, such as the physiological upper thoracic uptake which has never been previously described. Numerous technical and physiological possibilities exist and those pitfalls must be ruled out. A precise knowledge of these technical difficulties and physiological variants can reduce the number of equivocal MIBG scans.
Dual-time-point-imaging of the liver showed a significant increase of tumor-to-background ratio and hypermetabolic lesion diameter. Although, 30% of all verified liver lesions could only be detected in the second delayed scan 10% of all malignant liver lesions were missed with FDG-PET.
Whether marrow investigations and MIBG scan explore the same phenomenon remains unclear. However it appears that marrow disease that is histologically detectable may remain MIBG negative both at diagnosis and after treatment. Both procedures are still justified at time of diagnosis and evaluation of response.
The risk of CNS recurrence in patients with neuroblastoma is 8% at 3 years after diagnosis and has not increased in the last 15 years. Because the CNS often is the sole site of recurrence, either it may be a sanctuary site, or the biologic determinants of CNS metastasis may be unique. Elucidation of risk factors and pathogenesis may allow prevention of this fatal event. Cancer 2003;98:155-65.
Metaiodobenzylguanidine scans are the most sensitive and specific method of staging and response evaluation in neuroblastoma, particularly when used with a semi-quantitative scoring method. Use of the optimal techniques for mIBG in staging and response, including a semi-quantitative score, is essential for evaluation of the efficacy of new therapy.
The current article covers the essentials and important points regarding the histopathologic evaluation of NTs. Using the morphologic criteria described herein, the INPC is proposing the International Neuroblastoma Pathology Classification. It is reported in a companion article in this issue (Cancer 1999;86:363-71).
Cryosurgery is safe and increases the number of patients with unresectable liver malignancies in whom surgery can aim at eradicating the tumor. Local recurrence is observed more frequently for metastases than for hepatocellular carcinoma. The benefit in survival is related to the complete treatment of the tumoral disease.
The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma continues to increase rapidly in the United States, with rates increasing the fastest in white men 45 to 54 years of age. These findings are consistent with a true increase and could be explained by consequences of hepatitis C virus acquired during the 1960s and 1970s.
These findings point to differences in the characteristics of the populations infected by hepatitis B and hepatitis C. Factors other than the hepatitis viruses are important in non-cirrhotic patients. A change in the relative prevalence of hepatitis virus markers among hepatocellular carcinoma cases was demonstrated, reflecting a significant change in the rate of HBV endemicity in the Italian population. Finally, the increased trend in the mortality rate from liver cancer in Italy from 4.8 per 100,000 in 1969 to 10.9 in 1994 may reflect the large cohort of subjects infected with HCV via the iatrogenic route during 1950s and 1960s when glass syringes were commonly used for medical treatment.
Interval cancers should be assessed as a proportion of eligible women screened within the same period of time and not as a proportion of all cancers. This audit demonstrates the importance of accurate cytology, appropriate follow up, prompt investigation and effective treatment of high-grade precancerous lesions.
Organized screening is more effective than spontaneous screening in reducing the risk of cervical cancer. Although differences in environmental, biological and ethnic factors may call for different screening strategies, screening should preferably start soon after age 20 with a screening interval of 2-3 years.
Compared with lobectomy, limited pulmonary resection does not confer improved perioperative morbidity, mortality, or late postoperative pulmonary function. Because of the higher death rate and locoregional recurrence rate associated with limited resection, lobectomy still must be considered the surgical procedure of choice for patients with peripheral T1 N0 non-small cell lung cancer.
Radical systematic mediastinal lymphadenectomy does not influence disease-free or overall survival in patients with NSCLC and without overt lymph node involvement. However, a small subgroup of patients with limited mediastinal lymph node metastases might benefit from a systematic lymphadenectomy.
Radical surgery can be performed in 37% (10 of 27) of the responders resulting in a prolonged survival. Surgery as part of combined modality treatment is feasible in stage IIIB NSCLC. Results of a repeat mediastinoscopy are disappointing and proved to be a not-so-effective restaging tool because of the high number of incomplete procedures and because it yields false negative results.
Different treatment modalities consisting of MLD and compression bandage(complex decongestive therapy) or IPC and SLD appear to be effective in the treatment of LE with similar therapeutic efficacy in patients with breast cancer. However, combination modalities including IPC and SLD may be the preferred choices for their applicability at home.
Our study highlights two important areas of future research that could reduce the incidence of lymphedema. There is a need to better understand the role that treatment for high blood pressure may play in protecting women from arm edema. Second, the potential effect of weight as a modifiable lymphedema risk factor needs to be studied in more detail in light of the conflicting results of different studies.
Based on a large body of evidence published in recent years, including randomized trials and systematic reviews, there is an urgent need for updating the guidelines on upper extremity musculoskeletal impairments and lymphedema. Furthermore, additional research is needed to provide an evidence base for developing rehabilitation guidelines on management of other impairments identified in the prospective surveillance model, eg, arthralgia.
Compression bandages are likely to reduce upper limb lymphoedema in breast cancer patients. Evidence on other physiotherapy methods and their combinations is limited due to the poor quality of the trials. No evidence was found on any outcomes other than upper limb volume. We call for well-designed trials with patient-related outcomes on the effectiveness of MLD, guidance and therapeutic exercises.
Due to the morbidity of lymphedema once it develops, prevention and information given early are extremely important. However, the recommendations made to women sometimes involve considerable changes in lifestyle but are not based on solid, prospective evidence. In addition, how to best impart and time information about lymphedema pre- and postoperatively require investigation. In this paper, the authors discuss the psychological and functional impact of lymphedema and strategies for intervention and research to help women prevent the condition or enhance coping with it once it develops.
High-quality data on HRQOL outcomes is required to inform surgical decisions for breast cancer management and survivors. Of the lymphedema-specific PRO instruments, the Upper Limb Lymphedema 27 (ULL-27) was found to have strong psychometric properties. Future studies should strive to use high-quality condition- specific PRO instruments, follow existing guidelines for HRQOL measurement and to consider economic burdens of BCRL.
Opportunities exist to improve lymphedema self-care education. Breast cancer survivors with lymphedema experience symptoms beyond that of simple swelling of the affected limb. Self-care is burdensome. Barriers to providing lymphedema self-care exist and may vary across patients. A multidisciplinary approach to lymphedema management, including self-care education and monitoring, is likely needed to improve QOL in this population.
Breast carcinoma-related secondary lymphedema is an important subjective and functional problem for affected patients. Additional research into the predisposing factors to this common problem is likely to foster enhanced patient education and to produce more efficacious measures to control this disease.
The prophylactic use of helmet CPAP  improved the P(aO(2))/F(IO(2)), but the oxygenation benefit was not lasting. In our study, helmet CPAP was a secure and well tolerated method in subjects who underwent pulmonary lobectomy. It might be safely applied whenever necessary.
The sensitivity of bronchoscopy is high for the detection of endobronchial disease and poor for peripheral lesions < 2 cm in diameter. Detection of the latter can be aided with the use of EBUS in the appropriate clinical setting. The sensitivity of TTNA is excellent for malignant disease. The distinction between SCLC and NSCLC by cytology appears to be accurate.
Only grade and stage are independent prognostic factors for survival in cases of chondrosarcoma. Current treatment algorithms have not improved the survival rates of patients with chondrosarcoma over the past thirty years. Routine patient surveillance following treatment should be extended to ten years of follow-up.
Although the data are suggestive, with the numbers available for study we could not detect a significant difference in the rates of pulmonary metastasis and death between the patients who had a grade-3 lesion and those who had a grade-3 lesion that was also dedifferentiated. However, the interval between diagnosis and death was 32+/-22.8 months for the patients who had a grade-3 lesion compared with 5+/-3.7 months for those who had a grade-3 lesion that was also dedifferentiated (p < 0.001). Overall, patients who had had a resection with wide margins (margins extending outside the reactive zone) had a longer duration of survival than did those who had had a so-called marginal resection (margins extending outside the tumor but within the reactive zone) or an intralesional resection (margins within the lesion) (p < 0.04). Adjunctive chemotherapy or radiation, or both (which, it must be noted, was used, without a protocol, in a relatively small number of patients), after an intralesional resection, for recurrent disease, or for distant metastasis did not appear to alter the outcome.
Pretreatment global QoL and IADL scores, but not ADL and comorbidity, have significant prognostic value for survival of elderly patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer who were treated with chemotherapy. Using these scores in clinical practice might improve prognostic prediction for treatment planning.
Treatment with docetaxel/gemcitabine produced a modest improvement in time-to-progression but had no impact on survival when compared with single-agent weekly docetaxel in this group of patients. Results with both regimens were disappointing, particularly in patients with poor performance status. Improved treatment for these patients will require the introduction of novel, well-tolerated, targeted agents.
The low response rate and survival together with the poor treatment compliance, even in the presence of mild toxicity, do not support the usefulness of these "gentle" chemotherapies in elderly NSCLC patients. The standard management of advanced NSCLC in elderly patients remains to be defined. Specifically designed studies to address this issue are warranted.
the results of this trial indicate that the combination of vinorelbine and cisplatin and that of gemcitabine and cisplatin are equivalent in terms of median TTP and OS, although the vinorelbine-cisplatin regimen is associated with a higher ORR. Both regimens may be considered as reference treatments for future studies. Moreover, our data reject the 'worst drug rule' hypothesis of sequential treatments in NSCCL at least with the combination used in this study.
Two-drug combinations containing the newer drugs without a platinum drug were less toxic than three-drug, platinum-based regimens. There were no significant differences in objective response rates or progression free survival when the four regimens were compared. The two-drug combination of gemcitabine and vinorelbine was the least toxic and, thus, may be superior. A Phase III trial comparing combined gemcitabine and vinorelbine with combined paclitaxel, carboplatin, and gemcitabine is ongoing.
In the present study, no significant differences were observed in response rate, survival or palliation of symptoms between the MEV and MVP regimens, while toxicity was significantly more frequent and severe with MVP. Thus, MEV should be considered a reasonable alternative to the MVP regimen in the treatment of stage IV NSCLC.
The results of this phase II randomised clinical trial do not indicate a clear superior efficacy of one of the tested combinations according to the planned statistical design and none of these regimens is sufficiently active or less toxic to warrant further investigation in a phase III study.
These results suggest that gemcitabine plus docetaxel or irinotecan is well tolerated in patients with chemotherapy-naïve advanced NSCLC. The survival data with the combination gemcitabine-docetaxel are promising. Gemcitabine-docetaxel combination therapy may be particularly useful for patients who have experienced toxicities with a platinum regimen or in patients who may be more susceptible to platinum-related toxicity.
The CRASH score distinguished several risk levels of severe toxicity. The split score discriminated better than the combined score. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first score systematically integrating both chemotherapy and patient risk for older patients and has a potential for future clinical application.
EGFR-TKIs therapy statistically significantly delays disease progression in EGFRmut(+) patients but has no demonstrable impact on OS. EGFR mutation is a predictive biomarker of PFS benefit with EGFR-TKIs treatment in all settings. These findings support EGFR mutation assessment before initiation of treatment. EGFR-TKIs should be considered as front-line therapy in EGFRmut(+) advanced NSCLC patients.
This is the first study that verified safety and efficacy of first-line treatment with gefitinib in elderly patients having advanced NSCLC with EGFR mutation. Considering its strong antitumor activity and mild toxicity, first-line gefitinib may be preferable to standard chemotherapy for this population.
Our results indicated that doublet therapy was superior to a single third-generation cytotoxic agent for elderly patients with advanced NSCLC. The optimal dosage and schedule of platinum-based doublet should be investigated in future prospective clinical trials. Gemcitabine-based doublet could be considered for elderly patients who were not suitable for platinum-based chemotherapy.
Long-term survival following liver resection for colorectal metastases has improved significantly in recent years at our institution. Although the reasons for this survival trend are not clear, contributing factors may include the use of newer preoperative and intraoperative imaging, increased use of chemotherapy, and salvage surgical therapy.
Patients with a colorectal tumor bearing mutated K-ras did not benefit from cetuximab, whereas patients with a tumor bearing wild-type K-ras did benefit from cetuximab. The mutation status of the K-ras gene had no influence on survival among patients treated with best supportive care alone. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Knowledge of the percentage of PCNA-positive cells could be especially helpful in deciding whether to treat patients with localized disease further because adjuvant chemotherapy affects mainly dividing cells and should, therefore, be more successful in tumors with high proliferative activity.
Preoperative chemoradiotherapy improved survival among patients with potentially curable esophageal or esophagogastric-junction cancer. The regimen was associated with acceptable adverse-event rates. (Funded by the Dutch Cancer Foundation [KWF Kankerbestrijding]; Netherlands Trial Register number, NTR487.).
Microvascular reconstruction is effective in the treatment of patients with mandibular ORN. Management of mandibular ORN can be successfully achieved without the use of perioperative HBO therapy. Because only 3 patients received perioperative HBO therapy, we are unable to comment on its potential benefit. Patients in whom prior HBO therapy has failed are significantly more likely to have surgical complications than are other patients with Marx stage III disease, and further study is required to improve outcomes in this subgroup of patients.
Injury to blood vessels and focal ovarian cortical fibrosis are aspects of ovarian damage caused by chemotherapy. These findings indicate a potential additional mechanism of damage to the direct apoptotic effect of chemotherapy on follicles. The possibility that these changes are involved in ageing ovaries should be further investigated.
In MSCC reirradiation was safe and effective. Patient walking capacity before reirradiation was the strongest prognostic factor for functional outcome. Reirradiation was given in about one-half of patients with in-field recurrence and different doses and fractionations were used, even though cumulative BED was in all cases ≤120 Gy(2).
In the current study, the difference in 6-month survival between the prognostic groups was found to be as significant as in the preceding study. Thus, this scoring system was considered valid to estimate survival of MSCC patients. The system could have been simplified by including only 3 instead of 5 prognostic groups.
This study demonstrated a radiosurgical decompression of epidural tumor. Although neurosurgical decompression and radiotherapy is the standard treatment in patients with good performance, radiosurgical decompression can be a viable noninvasive treatment option for malignant epidural compression.
If not medically contraindicated, steroids are recommended for any patient with neurologic deficits suspected or confirmed to have MESCC. Surgery should be considered for patients with a good prognosis who are medically and surgically operable. RT should be given to nonsurgical patients. For those with a poor prognosis, a single fraction of 8 Gy should be given; for those with a good prognosis, 30 Gy in 10 fractions could be considered. Patients should be followed up clinically and/or radiographically to determine whether a local relapse develops. Salvage therapies should be introduced before significant neurologic deficits occur.
Thirty gray per 10 fractions was preferable to 40 Gy per 20 fractions, because it was associated with similar outcome, less treatment time, and lower costs. The type of tumor, pretreatment ambulatory status, and length of time developing motor deficits before RT were relevant prognostic factors and should be considered in future studies.
Given the limitations of a retrospective study and the relatively short follow up after Re-RT, spinal reirradiation appeared to be effective and safe when the cumulative BED is </=120 Gy(2). Motor function after Re-RT was associated with the effect of first irradiation, performance status, time to development of motor deficits, and visceral metastases, whereas the Re-RT schedule had no significant impact.
Long-course radiotherapy was associated with better local control, similar functional outcome, and similar survival compared to short-course radiotherapy. Patients with a relatively favorable expected survival should receive long-course radiotherapy.
Most patients with spinal metastases have a limited life expectancy and should be treated with caution regarding surgical procedures. Radiotherapy is a safe and effective, noninvasive treatment modality for pain. The new scoring system will enable physicians to select patients who may survive long enough to benefit from more radical treatment.
The PTA allows circumferential epidural tumor decompression and the placement of anterior and posterior spinal column instrumention. Immediate spinal stability is achieved without the use of brace therapy. This technique achieved a high success rate for pain palliation, neurological preservation, and functional improvement, while avoiding the morbidity associated with combined approaches.
The likelihood that a complication occurred was significantly related to Harrington classifications demonstrating significant neurologic deficits and the use of preoperative radiation therapy. In general, Harrington classifications with neurologic deficits and lower Frankel grades before and after surgery were associated with an increased risk of complication. Overall, the major complication rate was relatively low, and minor complications were successfully treated with minimal morbidity. The relatively long survival time after spinal surgery in this group of patients justifies surgical treatment for metastatic disease. Most complications occurred in a small percentage of patients. To minimize complications, patients must be carefully selected based on expected length of survival, the use of radiation therapy, presence of neurologic deficit, and impending spinal instability or collapse caused by bone destruction.
It was shown in this multicenter study that sentinel lymph node detection in vulvar carcinoma patients with blue dye only is not feasible because its negative predictive value is too low. Further studies involving the use of a combination of radioactive labeled technetium and blue dye are warranted.
This study shows that identification of SLN in squamous cell cancer of the vulva is feasible, however not highly accurate depending on tumor localization and size. The false negative rate seems to be acceptable if the procedure is restricted to stage 1 tumors with clinically negative lymph node status. Tumors situated in or close to the midline seem to be less suitable for this procedure. Implementation of SLNB into clinical practice should be performed with care and only by experienced teams as to avoid preventable groin relapses.
Lymphoscintigraphy and SN biopsy under gamma detecting probe guidance proved to be an easy and reliable method for detection of SNs in early vulvar cancer. If these preliminary data will be confirmed, the technique would represent a real progress towards less aggressive treatment in patients with vulvar cancer.
Lymphoscintigraphy and sentinel lymph node biopsy under gamma-detecting probe guidance proved to be an easy and reliable method for the detection of sentinel node in early vulvar cancer. Immunohistochemical analysis improves the sensitivity for the detection of regional micrometastases. The sentinel node assay is highly accurate in predicting the status of the remaining inguinofemoral lymph nodes. Our results indicate that patients best suited to SLN assay have had a simple punch biopsy to confirm the diagnosis rather than a previous tumor excision. This technique represents a true advance in the selection of patients for less radical surgery.
Although the numbers were small, this study showed that the sentinel lymph node procedure is capable of identifying patients who have occult lymph node metastases and who may benefit from lymphadenectomy for locoregional control and prevention of distant metastases. However, the data also suggest that the sentinel lymph node procedure may increase the risk of locoregional recurrences (in-transit metastases), especially in patients with thick melanomas. The potential role of the sentinel lymph node procedure as an alternative method of lymph node staging in patients with vulvar melanoma needs further investigation only within the protection of clinical trials and probably should be restricted to patients with melanomas with intermediate thickness (1-4 mm).
Sentinel lymph node detection is safe and accurate in assessing lymph node status in women with vulval cancer undergoing staging. The combined method using Tc-99m and methylene blue dye injection for SLN detection has the best detection rate. Routine ultrastaging of negative SLN improves the detection of nodal metastases.
Results indicate that previous excision of a primary vulvar malignancy does not decrease SN detection rates or increase SN false-negative rate. Therefore, the SN procedure appears to be a reliable technique in patients who have previously undergone vulvar surgery. Previous excision did not significantly lengthen SAT, but the sample size in this subgroup analysis was small.
The recurrence rate for patients undergoing inguinal sentinel node dissection alone is low. These patients did not experience any complications as seen with complete groin node dissections. Sentinel lymph node dissection should be considered as an option for evaluation of inguinal nodes for metastatic disease.
Positron emission tomography is relatively insensitive in predicting lymph node metastasis, and a negative study is not a reliable surrogate for a pathologically negative groin. However, the high specificity suggests that positron emission tomography is useful in planning radiation therapy and as an adjunct to lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymph node dissection.
The major diagnostic groups and number of positive lymph nodes were confirmed to be prognostically important. Although literature on vulvar disease notes a benefit of radiation therapy for patients with more than one positive lymph node, radiation therapy was not predictive of survival for patients in this study.
The present study underlines the importance of serial sectioning and immunostaining of lymph nodes in the search for micrometastases in vulvar carcinoma patients. However, the results of the present study do not suggest a more thorough examination of non-sentinel lymph nodes in vulvar carcinoma patients where the sentinel lymph nodes are thoroughly examined.
Distinct age-specific incidence rate patterns of invasive vulvar SCC by race and ethnicity and the higher incidence rates observed among white women compared with women of other races and ethnicities were opposite to patterns noted for cervical cancer. Underestimations of the burden of in situ vulvar cancers were a result of the inability to examine VIN 3 in the authors' data. Encouragement of cancer registries to report and submit VIN 3 data and more research on data quality will allow a thorough assessment of the impact of HPV vaccine by providing a basis for examining the true burden and quality of these precancerous vulvar tumors. Increased documentation of histologic subtypes in pathology reports and in cancer registry data can help differentiate the burden ofHPV-associated types from non-HPV-associated types of vulvar cancers.
At present, MEA chemotherapy (without cyclophosphamide or vincristine) is our treatment of choice for patients with high-risk GTT. Its toxicity is predictable and manageable. For patients who become resistant to MEA, new salvage chemotherapy regimens are needed.
CSAP appears to be effective in obtaining local control as measured by biopsy and PSA 21 months or more post-treatment. When retrospectively comparing our results with recently published radiotherapy series, CSAP was more effective in obtaining nadir PSA values 1.0 ng/mL or less and negative biopsies at 21 months or more after treatment.
Although preliminary, short-term outcomes after cryosurgical prostate ablation appear to be comparable to identical outcomes reported for external beam radiotherapy. Based on these results cryosurgical prostate ablation appears to be an effective therapeutic alternative for treating patients with localized prostate adenocarcinoma.
These preliminary results demonstrate that cryosurgical ablation of the prostate is a viable treatment option for prostate carcinoma. In the authors' experience, ultrasound alone may not be adequate for monitoring the entire cryosurgical procedure. The authors found that temperature monitoring shortened their learning curve, enabled them to freeze prostate tissue more aggressively, and may have contributed to their overall success.
As costs become an ever more critical factor in healthcare, the costs of various treatment options for clinically localized prostate cancer will become as important as clinical outcomes in deciding appropriate treatment. From a strictly financial perspective, CSAP is a viable treatment option for clinically localized prostate cancer.
A revised method for cryosurgery using 6 to 8 cryoprobes has proved to be more effective for near-glandular ablation than the traditional 5-probe method. It was easily applied, had a wide margin of safety, and even shortened learning time. These innovations have permitted a closer approach to the goal of complete glandular destruction.
Cryosurgical ablation of the prostate has the ability to ablate prostatic tissue completely, thus rendering it free of glandular elements as determined by biopsy. Increasing PSA can indicate residual glandular elements. Increases in unaltered prostatic glandular epithelial elements with time are not paralleled by increased rates of local disease recurrence. undetectable serum PSA has a low risk of residual unaltered prostatic glandular epithelial elements and localized carcinoma. Results as measured by unaltered prostatic glandular epithelial elements and PSA improve with the surgical experience.
These findings emphasize the need for establishing uniform guidelines for diagnostic and therapeutic procedures for DCIS, and for clearly defined risk factors for recurrence after BCT for DCIS. Because of its randomized nature, the main question of the trial, i.e. the effect of radiotherapy on the risk of local recurrence, will not be influenced by variation. The risk of local recurrence in itself, and hence the success of BCT for DCIS, may however be influenced by the quality of the initial procedures that were conducted.
Although not an endpoint of this study, the authors' findings suggest that the beneficial effect of irradiation in reducing IBT after lumpectomy for DCIS occurs with small (< 1.0 cm.) and larger lesions. Moderate/marked comedo necrosis and uncertain/involved lumpectomy margins represent independent predictors of IBT.
The degree of comedo necrosis in patients with DCIS appears to be sufficient for discriminating between high and low risks for IBT following lumpectomy for DCIS. Although margin status, unlike in our previous report, was found to have only a slight or borderline influence on the frequency of IBT at 8 years, excision of DCIS with free margins is advised. The low risk group exhibits a statistically significant reduction of IBT from XRT. The decision to forgo XRT in the treatment of this singular subset of patients would appear to depend on clinical considerations and the input of informed patients rather than being standard practice. [See editorial on pages 375-7, this issue.]
The results of salvage treatment in the current study demonstrated that local recurrences were salvaged with high rates of survival and freedom from distant metastases. These results support the use of breast-conserving surgery and radiation for initial management of DCIS of the breast.
NFL is an active, well-tolerated regimen for the treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma; it produced a higher response rate than the CMF regimen used in this study. Although more intense CMF regimens or regimens containing doxorubicin would likely increase the response rate, they would almost certainly do so with the consequence of greater toxicity as compared with NFL. NFL is an excellent initial palliative treatment option for elderly patients or patients who have exhibited poor tolerance for other chemotherapy regimens.
These results suggest that long-term alpha-tocopherol supplementation decreases serum androgen concentrations, and could have been one of the factors contributing to the observed reduction in incidence and mortality of prostate cancer in the alpha-tocopherol treatment group of the ATBC Study.
Our data support the results from previous studies in which no association between dietary antioxidant vitamins and carotenoids and risk for colorectal cancer has been observed. Likewise, no association between baseline serum antioxidant concentrations and colorectal cancer risk was evident.
Neither alpha tocopherol nor beta carotene supplementation had any postintervention preventive effects on stroke. The post-trial increase in cerebral infarction risk among recipients of alpha tocopherol may present a rebound of the reduced risk of cerebral infarction during the intervention.
In the ATBC Study cohort, higher serum alpha-tocopherol status is associated with lower lung cancer risk; this relationship appears stronger among younger persons and among those with less cumulative smoke exposure. These findings suggest that high levels of alpha-tocopherol, if present during the early critical stages of tumorigenesis, may inhibit lung cancer development.
The benefits of ramipril observed during the active period of the HOPE trial were maintained during posttrial follow-up for cardiovascular death, stroke, and hospitalization for heart failure. Additional reductions in myocardial infarction, revascularization, and the development of diabetes were observed during the follow-up phase despite similar rates of ACEI use in the 2 randomized groups. These benefits were consistent regardless of patient risk or ancillary treatments.
HOPE will be one of the largest trials of two new interventions to prevent myocardial infarction, stroke or cardiovascular death in high risk patients. The results of HOPE will have direct public health impact and are likely to be readily incorporated into clinical practice. Key design features of HOPE are inclusion of individuals at high risk of cardiovascular disease, inclusion of a substantial proportion of patients with diabetes (36%) and women (27%), and detailed substudies to provide data on mechanisms of benefit.
Interobserver agreement is high for major stroke types as well as for categories of hemorrhagic stroke on the basis of review of medical records and results of imaging data. The classification of ischemic stroke subtypes, however, is subject to substantial interobserver disagreement. Periodic reclassification of random samples of end points might be considered in long-term prospective studies to assess potential misclassification of events by different observers.
These results from a population of generally healthy physicians indicate that a report of a history of cataract is not associated with any material increase in mortality after adjustment for differences in age between men with and without cataract. Additional investigation of this cohort is in progress to determine whether incident age-related cataracts as well as their subtypes, confirmed by medical record review, are associated with increased mortality.
These data support a U-shaped relation between alcohol and total mortality among light-to-moderate drinking men. The U-shaped curve may reflect an inverse association for CVD mortality, no association for common site-specific cancers and a possible positive association for less common cancers.
In this rural Chinese population with low meat intake and moderate cholesterol concentrations, long-term garlic supplementation had no effect on lipid profiles, whereas micronutrient supplementation was associated with small but significant increases in total and LDL-cholesterol concentrations at 7.3 y.
The state of borderline iodine deficiency observed in France, in association with a slightly goitrogenic environment, may result in sustained stimulation of the thyroid, independently of TSH level, and is of paramount importance in the formation of goitre. Smoking may affect the thyroid, inducing marked long-lasting thyroid enlargement.
In mature adults, selection of fat-reduced products was associated with improved quality of the diet, while anthropometric and biological parameters appeared less favourable in consumers of low-sugar products vs. non-consumers. The longitudinal follow-up of the cohort in future years will help determine cause-and-effect relationships among these parameters.
The present data suggest that the consumption of RTE cereals contributes to a balanced diet. The strong association between cereal consumption and vitamin and mineral intakes confirm previous studies suggesting that RTE cereals make a major contribution to micronutrient intakes. The consumption of RTE cereals also appears to be associated with lower corpulence.
The negative impact of cancer on the lives of patients was assessed in terms of HRQoL. The aspects most likely to be affected were those with a physical component, and general health perceptions. These results can thus help quantify the impact of a new cancer on HRQoL evolution and potentially facilitate early intervention by identifying the most affected HRQoL domains.
In both genders, systolic and diastolic blood pressure and serum cholesterol increased with weight gain and decreased with weight loss, independently of the intentionality to lose weight. At the population level, modest weight loss may have a substantial impact on cardiovascular risk, and preventing even modest weight gain in adults is an important goal in terms of public health.
Exposure to HVAC systems was a strong and significant risk factor for otorhinolaryngologist attendance and sickness absence. HVAC systems are prevalent in recent office buildings and have been shown to be associated with several adverse health effects in terms of morbidity and mortality. From a public-health perspective, our results outline the need for a quantitative assessment of the health impact of ventilation systems, taking into account the possible loss of production that exists in addition to the direct costs of medical services use.
Subjects meeting PHR for physical activity had better HRQoL than those who did not. Our data suggest that 30' of moderate LTPA per day on a regular basis may be beneficial on HRQoL. Higher intensity LTPA is associated with greater HRQoL. This emphasizes the importance to promote at least moderate physical activity.
The agreement between the two modes of administration of the questionnaire suggests that the self-administered version of the MAQ is a valuable tool to assess past-year physical activity and inactivity in self-administered conditions. This instrument could be used in large-scale population studies investigating the relationships between physical activity and health outcomes.
The similar distribution of known potential confounders across treatment groups provides reassurance that unmeasured or unknown potential confounders are also equally distributed. Although a definitive conclusion regarding generalizability requires additional trials in diverse populations, there is little biological basis for supposing that the benefit-risk balance differs in other high-risk women.
Results from this large-scale, long-term trial suggest that alternate day use of low-dose aspirin (100 mg) for an average 10 years of treatment does not lower risk of total, breast, colorectal, or other site-specific cancers. A protective effect on lung cancer or a benefit of higher doses of aspirin cannot be ruled out.
In this large, primary-prevention trial among women, aspirin lowered the risk of stroke without affecting the risk of myocardial infarction or death from cardiovascular causes, leading to a nonsignificant finding with respect to the primary end point.
This study provides no evidence to justify continued use of n-acetylcysteine, selenium, vitamin C based antioxidant therapy in severe acute pancreatitis. In the context of any future trial design, careful consideration must be given to the risks raised by the greater trend towards adverse outcome in patients in the treatment arm of this study.
The use of multivitamins, vitamin E, and calcium supplements were found to be associated with a lower incidence of recurrent adenomas in a population of patients with history of previous colonic neoplasia. Prospective, randomized trials are needed to better assess the impact of these agents and to determine whether the use of these supplements is associated with a protective effect against recurrent adenomas.
Available evidence does not support emergency sclerotherapy as the first-line treatment of variceal bleeding in cirrhosis when compared with vasoactive drugs, which control bleeding in 83% of patients. Therefore, endoscopic therapy might be added only in pharmacologic treatment failures.
Pooled results from observational studies suggest that antioxidant intake may be protective against esophageal adenocarcinoma; the data do not support a consistent association between antioxidant intake and the risk of cardia carcinoma. These findings suggest possible etiological differences between these two adjacent malignancies.
These projections represent a set of three visions of the future for population health, based on certain explicit assumptions. Despite the wide uncertainty ranges around future projections, they enable us to appreciate better the implications for health and health policy of currently observed trends, and the likely impact of fairly certain future trends, such as the ageing of the population, the continued spread of HIV/AIDS in many regions, and the continuation of the epidemiological transition in developing countries. The results depend strongly on the assumption that future mortality trends in poor countries will have a relationship to economic and social development similar to those that have occurred in the higher-income countries.
Accurate interpretation of factorial trials depends on the transparent reporting of data for each treatment cell. Despite concerns about unrecognized interactions, our findings suggest that investigators are appropriately restricting their use of the factorial design to those situations in which 2 (or more) treatments do not have the potential for substantive interaction.
The research programme has been important as it has focused attention on disease prevention rather than on treatment, and has helped progress identification of biomarkers. From human observational and intervention studies there is evidence of an association between a diet rich in plant foods (particularly fruit and vegetables) and health benefits. However, as there is no evidence that any particular nutrient or class of bioactive substances makes a special contribution, currently the most prudent public health advice is to increase vegetable and fruit consumption.
Some good-quality cohort studies have reported an association between the use of vitamin supplements and lower risk for cardiovascular disease. Randomized, controlled trials of specific supplements, however, have failed to demonstrate a consistent or significant effect of any single vitamin or combination of vitamins on incidence of or death from cardiovascular disease. Understanding the sources of these differences will permit researchers to better analyze the cohort study data and to better design long-term clinical trials.
Observational studies do not correlate with randomized clinical trials; therefore, few definitive recommendations can be made. Vitamin supplements are appropriate for recognized deficiencies; however, there is a lack of evidence to support their effects in the prevention of chronic disease.
Although PSA had not been introduced in the clinical practice at the start of the study, we were still able to show that it is possible to perform a long-term population-based randomised controlled study with standardised management and that screening in general practice is an efficient way of detecting prostate cancer whilst it is localised. Complete data on stage, treatment and mortality for both groups was obtained from a validated cancer register, which is a fundamental prerequisite when assessing screening programmes.
If PSA screening is started at the age of 50 years (or 45 years in the higher risk population), annual or biannual PSA alone is highly efficient to identify the men who are at high risk of having prostate cancer. Coupled with treatment of localized disease, this approach demonstrates, for the first time, that early diagnosis and treatment permits a dramatic decrease in deaths from prostate cancer.
We found no evidence of a beneficial effect of this specific screening procedure but strong evidence of a difference in overall survival in screening attendees and nonattendees. These findings should be considered when interpreting previous and upcoming studies of the effect of screening programs.
Results of this study suggest a reduction in prostate cancer-specific mortality associated with PSA and/or DRE screening in middle-aged men. Findings should be interpreted cautiously, however, as results are based on observational data. Further, the study was not able to separate the relative efficacy of PSA versus DRE screening.
Health risk behaviors are associated with lower prostate specific antigen awareness. Our findings suggest opportunities for focused health education interventions and quality improvement programs tailored to men who engage in unhealthy behaviors to improve their prostate specific antigen test awareness.
The combination of total serum PSA and DRE remains the standard for detection of prostate carcinoma in a screening population. Their specificity may be improved minimally by the F/T ratio, but not significantly in a sample of 1726 screened men. The threshold of the F/T ratio, and the optimal PSA range for its application, remains to be assessed prospectively.
PSA used as prescreening and followed by DRE and TRUS when PSA is abnormal is highly efficient in detecting prostate cancer at a localized (potentially curable) stage since 99% of the cancers diagnosed were at such a localized stage, thus practically eliminating the diagnosis of metastatic and noncurable prostate cancer. The approach used is highly reliable, sensitive, efficient, and acceptable by the general population. The detection of clinically nonsignificant cancer is an exception.
At the group level, we did not find evidence that prostate cancer screening induced important short-term health-status effects, despite the short-lasting side effects related to the biopsy procedure. However, subgroups may experience high levels of anxiety. The implication is that unfavorable health-status effects of prostate cancer screening occur mainly in the treatment phase.
Wide variation in probability of detecting prostate cancer among screened men with a serum PSA of 4-20 microg/l was observed. The nomograms established can be used to avoid or defer biopsy in men with a low prostate cancer probability in spite of a serum PSA level exceeding 4 microg/l.
In prostate needle biopsies obtained from a screened population, indications for repeat biopsy such as high grade PIN and borderline lesions do not represent large diagnostic subsets. Borderline lesions comprise the most important indication for a repeat biopsy. The low frequency of equivocal biopsy diagnoses in the current study supports the clinical applicability of sextant needle biopsies in population-based screening for prostate carcinoma.
The Iranian male population develops prostate cancer quite commonly if their serum PSA levels are greater than 4.0 ng/mL. In this study, 65.9% of the detected cancers were clinically significant. The conventional systematic sextant technique may be inappropriate for detection of all prostate cancers. The results need to be confirmed in other randomized trials.
The present data show that annual screening with PSA diagnoses clinically localized prostate cancer in more than 95% of cases, thus almost completely eliminating the diagnosis of metastatic prostate cancer. Moreover, the number of prostate cancers diagnosed is not significantly increased by screening.
The American College of Preventive Medicine concludes that there is insufficient evidence to recommend routine population screening with DRE or PSA. Clinicians caring for men, especially African-American men and those with positive family histories, should provide information about potential benefits and risks of prostate cancer screening, and the limitations of current evidence for screening, in order to maximize informed decision making.
By lowering the PSA cutoff from 4 to 3 ng./ml. an increase in cancer detection by 30% was achieved. While the addition of free-to-total ratio and PSA density may reduce the number of biopsies by about 15% with sensitivity maintained at 90%, systematic sextant biopsies were necessary in most of these mean as 66% of the tumors were negative on transrectal ultrasound and digital rectal examination. The majority of these cancers were clinically significant and suitable for curative treatment. If therapy decisions are based on the pathological findings of the biopsies, the risk of treating insignificant cancers seems low.
Prostate specific antigen velocity more than 2 ng/ml per year has been linked to a significantly greater risk of prostate cancer specific mortality. Patients who underwent serial screening had a more favorable prostate specific antigen velocity profile at diagnosis, suggesting that screen detected prostate cancer may be more likely to be cured with definitive therapy.
PAC is a rare finding in the second round of screening after a 4-year interval, and a substantial proportion of PAC cases detected in the second screening round represent organ-confined disease. The findings of the current study suggest that the screening protocol used is sufficiently effective for detecting > 95% of malignancies before they develop features that would make them incurable.
The PSA range 2.0 to 3.9 ng/ml is accessible for prostate cancer screening. Percent FPSA is of moderate value in avoiding unnecessary biopsies in the PSA range of 2.0 to 3.9 ng/ml. However, when assessing tumor aggressiveness in biopsy results, percent FPSA is predictive and can be used to select treatment options, such as watchful waiting.
hK2 and percent free PSA have added prognostic value for the detection of minimal prostate cancer in screen-detected cases within PSA range 4-10 ng/ml. These biomarkers can possibly be used to select less invasive treatment options like active surveillance and to prevent overtreatment.
There is a significant number of prostate cancer cases diagnosed at PSA as low as 1 to 3 ng./ml. A majority of these tumors are clinically significant. This free-to-total ratio range may be helpful for identifying prostate cancer. The "window of opportunity" for detection of curable cancer may change in populations with higher life expectancy towards lower PSA. Lack of specificity and characterization of tumor aggressiveness remains an unsolved issue for PSA.
Review of the literature concerning transrectal biopsies of the prostate shows that the complication rates within this screened population are comparable to those reported within referred patients. The admittance rate is slightly lower. Transrectal ultrasound-guided systematic sextant biopsy of the prostate is a safe procedure for the diagnosis of prostate cancer within the general population; however, identification of risk factors for complications might further improve the safety of the screening procedure.
The planimetrically obtained prostate volume showed a more favorable agreement with the radical prostatectomy volume than the prolate ellipsoid volume. The discriminatory potential of the corrected PSA value is better at predicting the results of needle biopsy of the prostate when compared with PSA alone. The use of the transition zone volume for this correction results in a higher discriminatory potential when compared to the use of the total prostate volume; however, the observed difference was not statistically significant.
The most important factor responsible for the failure to diagnose these cancers at the primary screening was significantly greater prostate volume. Tumor characteristics were not significantly different in the groups. If prostate cancer screening were to become a routine health care policy, efforts would have to be made to improve the chances of diagnosing prostate cancer in larger prostates by repeat biopsy or by increasing the number of cores obtained.
Comparison of the characteristics of prostate cancer detected through screening of the general population with those in a population based cohort of men in which there was no organized screening revealed stage reduction, primarily with regard to number of metastatic cases. Whether this stage reduction will lead to a decrease in disease specific mortality remains unknown until the study is completed and the end point of prostate cancer specific mortality is evaluated.
This report shows a beneficial, although preliminary, outcome of screen-detected men managed on active surveillance. Men were more likely to be on active surveillance if the disease was detected at repeated screening. The report also shows that an important proportion of men have prolonged PSA doubling times, although the value of this parameter has not been established in untreated men.
The number of cancers detected in this study and the distribution of clinical stage and biopsy Gleason score confirmed that a relatively large proportion of potentially curable cancers can be found in the low PSA ranges. The PSA velocity did not appear to be a useful screening tool for the identification of these cancers.
Looking at the differences in the predictive value of screening tests in three "comparable" centers, generasibility is not as straightforward as it seems. Using a nomogram for predictive purposes developed elsewhere will require a thorough knowledge of the patient population of which it is derived, and one should interpret its results with a critical mind.
The pilot studies led to a common, agreed set of minimal requirements for participation in the European study. These features include randomization, PC mortality as major endpoint, age 55-70 years, biopsy policy, rescreening interval, treatment policies, and follow-up. A randomized screening study seems to be feasible in Europe.
Approximately half of the tumors missed with PSA 0 to 4 ng./ml. had aggressive characteristics (Gleason score 7 or greater, Gleason 4-5 components) and were organ confined. These tumors should be diagnosed and treated according to the present understanding of their natural history. More sensitive and selective screening strategies are needed. Presently a wrong "window of opportunity" is used for early detection of prostate cancer.
Lowering the biopsy indication to a PSA cutoff of 3.0 ng/mL or greater without a DRE improved the positive predictive value from 18.2% to 24.3%. The number of biopsies necessary to detect 1 case of PCa accordingly changed from 5.2 to 3.4. The overall characteristics of the cases detected at that PSA cutoff differed very little from those detected with the regimen based on PSA, DRE, and transrectal ultrasound.
PSA progression to the (arbitrary) cutoff value of 3.0 ng/ml and the diagnosis of prostate cancer in round 2 screening with a 4-year interval depends strongly on PSA values at the time of the 1st screen. These observations will be helpful to design future screening procedures. With levels less than 2.0 ng/ml PSA progression to levels of 3.0 ng/ml or greater is rare as it was seen only in 4.8% of all men.
A prostate specific antigen of 1.5 ng/ml or greater in men older than 50 years represents an indicator for greater than average future risk of prostate cancer. Prostate specific antigen and other factors can be used to define future prostate cancer risk in addition to current use as a diagnostic marker for prostate cancer.
Using a free/total PSA ratio of 20% or less as the threshold for biopsy, the differences in assay sensitivity and specificity for detecting prostate cancer are significant. Commercially available assays for PSA and its derivatives are not necessarily interchangeable, and these differences might lead to different clinical outcomes. When using free and total PSA measurements to make clinical decisions, patients and physicians should be aware of the potential standardization bias and which assay is being used.
A single, one-shift distribution of printed educational material on prostate cancer screening, changed their attitude regarding prostate cancer screening only in favour of PSA testing, while did not manage to change the DRE acceptance behavior. However, since the combination of the two tests is more sensitive for diagnosis than either one alone, there is a need of introducing intervention strategies, in the efforts of ameliorating the prostate cancer screening behavior.
Prostate cancers identified in a screening setting have a substantially higher likelihood of being indolent than those predicted by a previously proposed nomogram. However, an updated model can support patients and clinicians when the various treatment options for prostate cancer are considered.
Hemodialysis induced elevations in all forms of PSA, but tPSA was the least affected form. cPSA did not show any diagnostic superiority over other forms of PSA. Thus, serum tPSA remains a reliable parameter for follow-up of prostate cancer in uremic patients receiving long-term dialysis. However, further research is needed to explain the pathophysiology of alterations in the concentrations of different forms of PSA.
Finasteride significantly reduced prostate cancer risk regardless of the level of this risk, estimated either by multivariable risk or by PSA stratum; this suggests that finasteride exerts both treatment and preventive effects. All men undergoing PSA screening should be informed of the potential for finasteride to reduce their risk of prostate cancer.
We observed a non significant tendency to lower clinical stages in patients undergoing screening. Radical surgery was the treatment of choice in patients with prostate cancer. Even with the current follow-up in the series (close to 9 years), no differences have been observed in terms of prostate cancer mortality between both study arms.
Before using risk calculators users must consider the properties of the underlying populations and what are the included or unavailable risk factors, and compare these to the patient. When these prerequisites are disregarded, dissimilarities will result in grossly inaccurate predictions for individual patients.
Based on tumor characteristics, possibly harmless, and conversely, possibly non-curable disease, may be distinguished from cancers that are likely to show clinical progression in the absence of screening and treatment. Prediction of these subclasses prior to treatment may eventually lead to proper patient management.
Rectal examination as initial screening test for prostate cancer at low PSA values may be replaced by screening using serum-PSA only. At PSA levels below 3.0 ng/ml, 289 rectal examinations are required to find one case of clinically significant disease, and 96 rectal examinations are needed to diagnose prostate cancer of any size, grade, or stage.
In biopsy and radical prostatectomy specimens of surgically treated prostate cancer, the amount of high-grade cancer is superior to the Gleason grading system in predicting patient outcome. We propose that, in addition to the Gleason score, the amount of Gleason growth patterns 4/5 in the biopsy (whether absolute length or proportion) should be mentioned in the pathology report.
Patients with one negative sextant biopsy still have a high likelihood of cancer, especially men with persistently elevated PSA and small prostates (<20 cc) while the majority of men with large prostates (>70 cc) have PSA elevation due to benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and not to cancer.
These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that the policy of making PSA testing freely available, and the wide acceptance by men in the population, is associated with a reduction in prostate cancer mortality in an area in which urology services and radiotherapy are available freely to all patients. It is our opinion that most of this decline is likely to be due to aggressive downstaging and successful treatment and that any contribution from detecting and treating early cancers will only become apparent in the years to come.
These results demonstrate a strong inverse association between DRE and prostate cancer mortality. If further research concludes this association to be causal, screening DREs may have prevented as many as 50% to 70% of deaths due to prostate cancer that might have occurred in the absence of screening.
Minor complications are frequently seen but major complications are rare after prostate biopsy. Assessment of the risk factors before biopsy can help to improve the adequacy of counseling, and precautionary measures can be taken to minimize the risk of complications after the procedure. Transrectal ultrasound-guided sextant biopsy remains a safe procedure for the diagnosis of prostate cancer within the general population.
Microscopic foci of HGPIN can be documented in males in the 3rd and 4th decades with the lesion becoming more extensive in older men. The finding that HGPIN is both more prevalent and its more diffuse form appears earlier in African-Americans, indicates a potentially important role for this lesion in the race-related discrepancies associated with this disease.
Although venlafaxine resulted in modest and acute reductions in hot flashes with few side effects, it may not be tolerable to some patients long-term. At least 50% relief in physiological hot flashes may be needed for patients to demonstrate improvement in other outcomes, including decreased fatigue, improved sleep, and improved quality of life.
A clinical assessment and intervention program for menopausal symptom management in breast cancer survivors is feasible and acceptable to patients, leading to reduction in symptoms and improvement in sexual functioning. Measurable improvement in a general QOL measure was not demonstrated.
The use of CEE increases the risk of stroke, decreases the risk of hip fracture, and does not affect CHD incidence in postmenopausal women with prior hysterectomy over an average of 6.8 years. A possible reduction in breast cancer risk requires further investigation. The burden of incident disease events was equivalent in the CEE and placebo groups, indicating no overall benefit. Thus, CEE should not be recommended for chronic disease prevention in postmenopausal women.
Relatively short-term combined estrogen plus progestin use increases incident breast cancers, which are diagnosed at a more advanced stage compared with placebo use, and also substantially increases the percentage of women with abnormal mammograms. These results suggest estrogen plus progestin may stimulate breast cancer growth and hinder breast cancer diagnosis.
The majority of women receiving treatment for breast cancer report menopausal symptoms, which negatively correlate, not only with their own, but also with their partner's quality of life. Most women experiencing hot flushes are not receiving treatment due to lack of both awareness and confidence in the existing treatment options.
Although individual trials suggest benefits from certain therapies, data are insufficient to support the effectiveness of any complementary and alternative therapy in this review for the management of menopausal symptoms. Many of these potential therapies warrant further study in trials with rigorous scientific designs to determine benefit and safety.
Overall health risks exceeded benefits from use of combined estrogen plus progestin for an average 5.2-year follow-up among healthy postmenopausal US women. All-cause mortality was not affected during the trial. The risk-benefit profile found in this trial is not consistent with the requirements for a viable intervention for primary prevention of chronic diseases, and the results indicate that this regimen should not be initiated or continued for primary prevention of CHD.
The study indicates that before as well as during hyperventilation, subdural ICP and AVDo2 are lower and CPP higher in propofol-anesthetized patients compared with patients anesthetized with isoflurane or sevoflurane. These findings were associated with less tendency for cerebral swelling after opening of dura in the propofol group. The carbon dioxide reactivity in patients anesthetized with isoflurane and sevoflurane was significantly higher than in the propofol group. The differences in subdural ICP between the groups are presumed to be caused by differences in the degree of vasoconstriction elicited by the anesthetic agents, but autoregulatory mechanisms caused by differences in CPP cannot be excluded.
The long-term risk of recurrent small-bowel obstruction is high. The risk is lessened by operation but not eliminated. The risk of recurrence increases with longer duration of follow-up, but most recurrences occur within 4 years. Multiple prior obstructions did not increase the risk of future obstruction.
In patients with a history of cancer, partial obstruction (but not complete obstruction) frequently resolves with medical management. Surgical intervention relieves most cases of partial or complete obstruction regardless of benign or malignant cause, but survival often is limited in the latter group. The entire intestinal tract should be evaluated in all patients, since 8.2% of patients in this series had concurrent small- and large-bowel obstructions. Home parenteral nutrition often provides symptomatic palliation in patients not amenable to surgical relief.
Our findings suggest that over half of stage IV patients are candidates for resection and exhibit improved survival over patients receiving SMT alone, regardless of site and number of metastases. We have begun a multicenter randomized phase III trial comparing surgery versus SMT as initial treatment for resectable distant melanoma.
LM/SNB is a safe, low-morbidity procedure for staging the regional nodal basin in early melanoma. Even after a 30-case learning phase and 25 additional LM/SNB cases, the accuracy of LM/SNB continues to increase with a center's experience. LM/SNB should become standard care for staging the regional lymph nodes of patients with primary cutaneous melanoma.
Biopsy-based staging of intermediate-thickness or thick primary melanomas provides important prognostic information and identifies patients with nodal metastases who may benefit from immediate complete lymphadenectomy. Biopsy-based management prolongs disease-free survival for all patients and prolongs distant disease-free survival and melanoma-specific survival for patients with nodal metastases from intermediate-thickness melanomas. (Funded by the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, and the Australia and New Zealand Melanoma Trials Group; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Anatomic location of the primary melanoma is an important independent predictor of SLN status and prognosis. Patients with primary melanomas of the head/neck and trunk have a worse prognosis than primary melanomas of other anatomic locations.
As age increases, so does Breslow thickness, the incidence of ulceration and regression, and the proportion of male patients-all poor prognostic factors. However, the frequency of SLN metastasis declines with increasing age. It is not known whether this represents a decreased sensitivity (higher false-negative rate) of the SLN procedure in older patients or a different biological behavior (hematogenous spread) of melanomas in older patients.
The continued increases in melanoma death rates for older persons and for thin lesions suggest that the increases may partly reflect increased ultraviolet radiation exposure. The substantial contribution of thin lesions to melanoma mortality underscores the importance of standard wide excision techniques and the need for molecular characterization of the lesions for aggressive forms.
The incidence of local/in-transit recurrence following selective lymphadenectomy in sentinel node-positive patients may be greater than four times the incidence expected. This possible iatrogenic risk should be confirmed or refuted by randomised controlled trial. Until then the SLNB procedure should be regarded as experimental and not performed outside validation trials.
Chemotherapy plus involved-field radiotherapy should be the standard treatment for Hodgkin's disease with favorable prognostic features. In patients with unfavorable features, four courses of chemotherapy plus involved-field radiotherapy should be the standard treatment. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Gene expression markers are suitable for screening but not as surrogates for the information from genetic risk factors. While many individual markers may be associated with outcome, only a few are of independent prognostic significance. With regard to prognosis estimation, the genetic prognostic factors cannot be replaced by the expression markers.
The incidence of CLL in the CAVHS was 37.6% higher than estimated from tumor registry data due to an increase in the use of peripheral blood immunophenotype as the only diagnostic test for CLL over the time period of the study. These data suggest that the true incidence of CLL may be substantially higher than estimated from tumor registry data.
Substance dependence and depressive disorders are common psychiatric disorders in patients with unresectable NSCLC. Although this form of malignant disease often is progressive, depressive disorders do not seem to increase during its clinical course. Pain management is essential for alleviating patients' depressive disorders, and self-rating depression and anxiety seems to be an indicator of subsequent depressive disorders.
Psychoeducational care was found to benefit adults with cancer in relation to anxiety, depression, mood, nausea, vomiting, pain, and knowledge. Differentiating among the effectiveness of various types of psychoeducational care was problematic. To maximize the utility of this knowledge for clinicians, more research is needed to evaluate the relative effectiveness of different types of psychoeducational care.
The fixed effects OR, random effects OR and random effects RR appear to be reasonably constant across different baseline risks. Given the interpretational and arithmetic ease of RR, clinicians may wish to rely on the random effects model RR and use the PEER to individualize NNT when they apply the results of a meta-analysis in their practice.
These results suggest that it is important for all oncology staff to pay careful attention to the psychological health of patients who have been informed of their cancer recurrence, and that some psychosocial intervention is necessary for preventing distress in patients facing early recurrence.
The results indicated that cancer patients' knowledge about mental illness and its treatment were insufficient. Psychological education may reduce patient-related barriers to seek and to utilize optimal mental health care in cancer patients.
The combination of civ/sc alemtuzumab plus rituximab has activity in some patients with recurrent/refractory CLL and maximum response is achieved after 1 cycle (4 weeks) in 73% of patients. Further exploration in other settings of CLL together with accompanying pharmacokinetic studies is recommended.
The current results demonstrated that self-administered, subcutaneous alemtuzumab was safe and active for residual disease and that plasma alemtuzumab levels and real-time minimal residual disease evaluation are important endpoints to monitor in future alemtuzumab consolidation trials.
The sequential combination of CVD with IL-2 + IFN-alpha appears to have produced an increase in the number of durable responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. The toxicity of this program, although severe, was manageable. The biochemotherapy regimen produced an apparent increase in the median survival compared to that observed with the CVD regimen. However, a prospective comparison of these two regimens will be required to confirm these observations.
The combination of docetaxel and DTIC is active and well tolerated in patients with advanced melanoma. While this combination is at least as effective as various combination regimens, it does not differ from that reported for single-agent DTIC.
Cytotoxic chemotherapy can be administered safely immediately before or immediately after IL-2 and alpha IFN. Sequential chemoimmunotherapy administered as previously described yields a response rate of more than 55%. The overall survival curve suggests that a proportion of patients may achieve a long-term benefit from this treatment. Also, cutaneous depigmentation induced by this treatment suggests that immune modulation may contribute to the antimelanoma effect of this treatment.
Microscopically positive margins following surgical excision of vulvar intraepithelial Paget's disease is a frequent finding, and disease recurrence is common regardless of surgical margin status. Long-term monitoring of patients is recommended, and repeat surgical excision is often necessary.
Patients with IP, IEPUA, or CCA have a poorer prognosis than patients with IEP. Location of Paget's disease is important for prognosis; and patients with clitoral Paget's disease may require more aggressive treatment. WLE is associated with a higher risk of recurrence, but overall patients with WLE tend to survive longer than patients treated more radically.
EMPD is an infrequently diagnosed disease that is preferably managed with complete local excision and reexcisions if needed. A thorough search for frequently occurring secondary malignancies might be beneficial to provide the best outcomes for these patients.
The findings that CK7 and CEA positive in Paget cell of VP, whereas 34 beta E12 and HMB45 negative, suggests that Paget cell of VP possesses characteristics of adenocarcinoma. The recurrence of VP correlates with positive surgical margins. Long term follow-up after operation is essential for VP. The prognosis of intraepithelial and minimally invasive VP was favourable, adjunctive radiotherapy after operation was effective for invasive VP in our studied cases.
PDT is an effective treatment for EMPD. Recurrence rates are high with topical ALA-PDT, but comparable with standard therapies. Topical ALA-PDT causes little scarring and is preferred for superficial disease and mucosal surfaces. Systemic Photofrin(R)-PDT may be better suited for bulky disease. While further studies are indicated, PDT is well tolerated and appears to be a useful therapy for EMPD.
Barriers to supervised exercise in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy are varied but over half can be directly attributed to the disease and its treatments. Behavioral support programs need to focus on strategies to maintain exercise in the face of difficult treatment side effects.
Improvements in self-esteem observed with RET during breast cancer chemotherapy were maintained at 6-month follow-up whereas reductions in anxiety not observed with AET during breast cancer chemotherapy emerged at 6-month follow-up. Moreover, adopting a combined aerobic and resistance exercise program after breast cancer chemotherapy was associated with further improvements in patient-rated outcomes. Exercise training during breast cancer chemotherapy may result in some longer-term and late effects for selected patient-rated outcomes.
Men who followed advice to rest and take things easy if they became fatigued demonstrated a slight deterioration in physical functioning and a significant increase in fatigue at the end of radiotherapy. Home-based, moderate-intensity walking produced a significant improvement in physical functioning with no significant increase in fatigue. Improved physical functioning may be necessary to combat radiation fatigue.
The results suggest that moderate intensity, individualized, prescriptive exercise maintains or improves cardiopulmonary function with concomitant reductions in fatigue regardless of treatment type. Moreover, cancer survivors receiving combination chemotherapy and radiotherapy following surgery appear to benefit to a greater extent as a result of an individualized exercise intervention.
ICP programs may be beneficial to lung cancer patients by reducing respiratory symptoms, pain, and improving health-related quality of life and exercise capacity. For this reason, the results of this study suggest that ICP programs, which are prepared by taking the individual requirements of lung cancer patients, should be placed in the treatment of the lung cancer.
The current study suggested that moderate intensity, individualized, prescriptive exercise maintains or improves cardiovascular and pulmonary function with concomitant reductions in fatigue during and after cancer treatment. However, it is critical that exercise be individualized to specific needs of the cancer survivor to prevent exacerbation of cancer treatment toxicities.
Exercise appears to reduce the levels of average and worst fatigue and may help women recognize their pattern of fatigue. Exercise may reduce the intensity of fatigue by reorganizing women's interpretation of fatigue. Routine clinical assessment and education about fatigue by health professionals can help patients to understand their pattern of fatigue and may help them to manage the symptom.
A mixed-type, moderate-intensity exercise program in a group format is acceptable to women following breast cancer treatment, with the potential to reduce fatigue and improve quality of life, without exacerbating or precipitating lymphoedema. This pilot work needs to be confirmed in larger randomised studies.
Cancer-related fatigue is common among cancer patients who have received chemotherapy and results in substantial adverse physical, psychosocial, and economic consequences for both patients and caregivers. Given the impact of fatigue, treatment options should be routinely considered in the care of patients with cancer.
In the small number of patients studied, the addition of heparin to PN did not significantly decrease the risk of catheter-related thrombosis, whereas warfarin and dalteparin did decrease the thrombosis risk in cancer patients with CVCs. There is no apparent increase in bleeding events with prophylactic anticoagulants in patients with CVCs.
RCTs stopped early for benefit are becoming more common, often fail to adequately report relevant information about the decision to stop early, and show implausibly large treatment effects, particularly when the number of events is small. These findings suggest clinicians should view the results of such trials with skepticism.
Venous thromboembolism is a major national health problem, especially among the elderly. While the incidence of pulmonary embolism has decreased over time, the incidence of deep vein thrombosis remains unchanged for men and is increasing for older women. These findings emphasize the need for more accurate identification of patients at risk for venous thromboembolism, as well as a safe and effective prophylaxis.
Ultrasound and multimodal screening can detect ovarian cancer in asymptomatic women, but there is currently no evidence on whether screening improves outcome for women in any risk group. On-going randomised controlled trials should establish the magnitude of any benefit of screening. The low prevalence of ovarian cancer in the population, and its rate of progression, may limit the potential cost-effectiveness of screening.
Incidence rates for malignant ovarian tumors have remained relatively stable, with higher rates for white women compared with black women. The reported rates for some specific histopathologic tumor types have changed over time, in part reflecting more specific pathologic classification. The possible effect of shifting exposure prevalence on incidence patterns warrants further study.
Laparoscopic treatment of borderline ovarian tumors is feasible if tumor is of moderate size (diameter below 10 cm), gives fewer complications, and shorter hospital stay. Long-term follow-up of larger materials is needed to determine the ultimate recurrence risk as well as fertility rates.
Most women with epithelial ovarian cancers continue to present with advanced disease. No improvements in early detection were apparent in the reference years studied. The benefits of the addition of chemotherapy to the treatment of this disease were most obvious in patients with Stage II and III disease, Grade 3 or 4, and those with Stage IV disease. These benefits were less clear in early stage disease. However, there continues to be significant room for improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.
After one-stage emergency curative treatment, patients presenting with obstructing tumors of the colon have a smaller survival probability than that of patients with nonobstructing lesions. Local recurrence pattern is similar between groups. Conversely, obstruction, along with pathologic stage and positive nodes, carries a significantly higher risk of metastatic tumor recurrence and death.
Although this pilot study of a limited number of patients failed to show noninferiority within the specified noninferiority margin, 7-day-old PCT PLTs showed acceptable efficacy and safety for support of thrombocytopenia. The results, however, warrant evaluation in a larger trial of 7-day-old PCT PLTs.
PLTs treated with B2 plus UV light demonstrate some alterations in in vitro measures but retain in vitro and in vivo capabilities similar to pathogen-reduced and licensed PLT components that have been shown to have useful clinical applicability. The recovery, survival, and metabolic properties of Mirasol PLTs should provide sufficient hemostatic support in thrombocytopenia to justify patient clinical trials.
Treatment with Intercept may increase the risk of all and clinically significant (albeit not severe) bleeding complications in RCTs maintaining a platelet count of ≥10×10(9) or ≥20×10(9)/l through increased platelet transfusions.
Clearly, CO(2) maintains its role as the primary insufflation gas in laparoscopy, but N(2)O has a role in some cases of depressed pulmonary function or in local/regional anesthesia cases. Other gases have no significant advantage over CO(2) or N(2)O and should be used only in protocol studies. The relation of port-site metastasis to a specific type of gas requires further research.
Postoperative prophylactic radiotherapy improved the 5-year survival rate in esophageal cancer patients with positive lymph node metastases and in patients with stage III disease compared with similar patients who did not receive radiation therapy. These results were almost significant for patients with positive lymph node metastases and highly significant for patients with stage III disease.
High dose rate brachytherapy in patients with inoperable lung cancer increased local control in our randomized study when used in combination with external irradiation. Survival time was also longer, but with no clear statistical significance. This applied especially to patients with squamous cell carcinomas. There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of fatal hemoptysis between the two groups.
Fractionated XRT is preferred to EBT as an initial treatment in better performance patients because it provides better overall and more sustained palliation with fewer retreatments and a modest gain in survival time. QL assessment is required in the evaluation of palliative treatments because clinicians frequently underestimate the incidence and severity of key symptoms.
Endobronchial radiotherapy led to subjective benefit in most cases in terms of symptoms and bronchoscopic and radiological appearances. There was objective improvement in spirometric indices and in exercise tolerance with increased pulmonary ventilation and perfusion and evidence of decreased intrathoracic airway obstruction.
HDR brachytherapy is an effective treatment for small endobronchial tumors. Late toxicity on the bronchial wall is still too high and was attributed mainly to contact between the catheter and the bronchial mucosa. Exclusive HDR brachytherapy should be restricted to carefully selected patients for whom there is no alternative curative treatment. New bronchial applicators and a lower dose per fraction may reduce the incidence and attenuate the severity of late complications.
Among 23 identified studies evaluated for clinically relevant outcome measures, 12 studies showed one or more statistically significant, positive results, another 7 studies showed at least one positive trend, 3 showed no effect and 1 had a negative trend. All studies, however, suffered from methodological shortcomings to some degree, and many of the studies are not conclusive. As several reasonably well conducted studies indicate beneficial effects, further properly designed trials should be encouraged. Future controlled studies should take into account the methodological limitations and potential biases of these past mistletoe trials.
Our results suggest that laparoscopic comprehensive surgical staging is a valuable treatment option for ovarian cancer patients with apparent early disease. Evidence is beginning to accumulate suggesting that minimally invasive surgery is at least equivalent in surgicopathological outcomes and middle-range oncological results to the conventional treatment approach, and early concerns are proving largely unfounded.
Laparoscopy seems to be an acceptable technical option to perform restaging of apparently early adnexal carcinomas. It spares the patients the discomfort of repeat laparotomy. Long-term outcome results suggest that laparoscopic staging, provided it meets the standards, accurately detects the patients who need chemotherapy and safely select the patients who can be proposed surgery only.
On the basis of the present findings, we are tempted to conclude that laparoscopic surgery is justified in the management of ovarian tumors. Even with an accurate preoperative selection of suitable patients for laparoscopic surgery, the presence of an undetected ovarian carcinoma cannot be entirely excluded.
Laparoscopic extraperitoneal paraaortic lymphadenectomy is feasible with minimal complications, acceptable nodal yield and short hospital stay. It accurately identifies those cervical and endometrial cancers requiring extended field irradiation as part of their adjuvant therapy. It can be effectively applied in staging early ovarian cancers to determine the need for adjuvant chemotherapy.
Our findings indicate that with consistent use of frozen sections of all cyst walls and suspicious tissue, laparoscopic management did not alter the prognosis. Neither CA 125 level, pelvic ultrasonography, nor peritoneal cytologic testing had sufficient diagnostic specificity to predict malignancy. Experienced surgeons using intraoperative histologic sampling may safely evaluate adnexal mass laparoscopically.
Laparoscopic approach of restaging for borderline ovarian tumours is an accurate safe procedure. It is associated with an acceptable rate of minor complications, it has similar morbidity associated with laparotomy and it minimises the incidence of infertility in the young patients. Whenever staging of borderline ovarian tumours is to be considered in an individual patient, laparoscopy provides a suitable alternative approach.
Current available data and worldwide interest clearly demonstrate that laparoscopic techniques must now be part of the armamentarium of the gynaecologic oncologist. Postoperative morbidity and recurrence risk do not seem to be affected. Cost-efficiency of laparoscopic procedures is based on the reduction of hospital stay and recovery time, although operating room time is increased in some procedures. Combined training in gynaecologic oncology and in laparoscopic and/or vaginal surgery is more than ever mandatory to avoid the risk of inadequate staging or management of pelvic malignancies.
Laparoscopic management of borderline ovarian tumors is associated with a higher rate of cyst rupture and incomplete staging. Recurrence was more frequent after conservative treatment. Whatever the surgical route, the rate of complete initial staging was low, emphasizing the need to respect treatment guidelines for borderline ovarian tumors.
Depending on the type of gas (CO(2), air, helium) used for laparoscopy blood, subcutaneous and intra-abdominal pH are influenced differently. Because lower pH is known to impair local defense mechanisms, these results may be one explanation for the higher incidence of port-site metastasis in laparoscopy with CO(2) than with other gases, as reported in the literature.
Because these findings explain the clinical findings of intraabdominal metastases after laparoscopy the authors conclude that the pneumoperitoneum provokes particular damage to the peritoneum that induces a specific intraperitoneal tumor growth. [See also editorial counterpoint on pages 747-8 and reply to counterpoint on pages 749-50, this issue.
Because only small numbers of patients were studied, our finding that the combination of fat reduction and a supplement of wheat bran reduced the incidence of large adenomas in this randomized, controlled trial must be treated with caution. The results do suggest, however, that these interventions may reduce the transition from smaller to larger adenomas, a step that may critically define those adenomas most likely to progress to malignancy.
High-dose wheat bran fiber and calcium carbonate supplements given for 9 months are associated with statistically significant reductions in both total and secondary fecal bile acid concentrations and excretion rates in patients with resected colon adenomas. This study supports the hypothesis that one of the important ways in which a high intake of wheat bran fiber and calcium may reduce the risk of colorectal neoplasia and cancer is by reduction of the concentrations of fecal bile acids.
Wheat bran can shift the fermentation of resistant starch further distally, thereby improving the luminal conditions in the distal colonic regions where tumours most commonly occur. Therefore, the combined consumption of resistant starch and insoluble non-starch polysaccharides may contribute to the dietary modulation of colon cancer risk.
Analyses of health behaviors among older adults must recognize the diversity within this age group, and measures of health beliefs should be included in subsequent studies of health behaviors among older adults. Physicians must also play a greater role in discussing smoking with their patients and advocating smoking cessation.
In this national sample of older women and men, black and Mexican American women and black men were at the greatest risk for CVD. These findings parallel the heightened risk of CVD among younger ethnic minority populations and argue for appropriate primary and secondary prevention programs, modified for the language, cultural, and medical needs of older ethnic minorities.
Although both p16(INK4a) and HC2 may aid in the clinical management of patients with clinically significant lesions, HC2 was found to have greater sensitivity, and p16(INK4a) greater specificity. The labeling of normal cells and bacteria may preclude the use of p16(INK4a) in automated screening or nonmorphologic assays.
For women with ASCUS Pap tests, HPV DNA testing of residual specimens collected for routine cervical cytology can help identify those who have underlying HSIL. By testing the specimen collected at initial screening, the majority of high-risk cases can be identified and referred for colposcopy based on a single screening.
In our study, 94.9% of the women in the clinic population with an ASCUS cytology had high-risk HPV compared with a rate of 45.5% in the private patients studied. Because most clinic patients with ASCUS have high-risk HPV, it is reasonable to defer reflex testing for HPV in these high-risk patients and proceed straight to colposcopy.
The risk of CIN 2/3 in the study population was significantly lower than reported in widely cited trial data. Neither presence nor absence of an EC/TZS, nor the age of the patient, had a statistically significant impact on the likelihood of biopsy diagnoses of CIN 2/3 and CIN 1 for patients with HPV-positive ASC-US test results.
Both ProEx C and MIB-1 were valid proliferation markers in cytologic preparations, and nuclear positivity was quantified successfully by using computer-assisted analysis. The analysis of atypical clusters may be a valuable tool in the diagnosis of SIL. The presence of atypical clusters and their positivity for proliferation markers are good first-glance indicators of lesion grade.
After the age of 25 years, HR-HPV prevalence is similar in LSIL and ASCUS cases, motivating a low age limit for triage HPV testing. Multiple infections and LR/HR-HPV dominance are age-dependent. Genotyping in longitudinal design is needed to elucidate the importance of multiple infections in cancer progression and in cross-protection from vaccination.
Triage by HPV and p16 improves considerably the PPV of diagnostic assessment, but decreases > CIN2 detection rate, and is associated with substantially higher costs. Further decrease of molecular immunochemistry testing due to technological progress may allow HPV and p16 testing to become a cost effective procedure in the future.
We conclude that in younger women with low-grade cytological abnormalities, a single HPV test would not be useful in determining who should be referred for colposcopy or the most effective management at colposcopy. In women over 40, a negative HPV test could be used to rule out further investigation.
Testing for HPV appears to have a role in the triage of students now being referred to our colposcopy clinic. A combination of HPV testing and repeated cytologic screening would provide reasonably sensitive screening for cervical neoplasia while limiting the use of colposcopic services, which are currently overburdened. The eventual usefulness of HPV testing will depend on the cost and availability of colposcopy services, the cost of Papanicolaou tests, the cost and accuracy of HPV tests, and the predictive value of HPV detection in the population being screened.
Testing for human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid with hybrid capture appears to offer an effective means by which patients whose cervical Papanicolaou smears have been read as atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance could be triaged for colposcopy. In particular, sensitivity for high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia could be maintained and specificity markedly improved by referring only those patients who had elevated levels of human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid of cancer-associated viral types.
Comparison of liquid-based and conventional Pap tests revealed a significant difference (33.8% vs. 15.3% respectively) (OR: 2.84, 95% CI: 1.4-5.73, p=0.004) in the detection of glandular and squamous lesions. HPV testing may prove beneficial to triage AGC patients with negative colposcopic findings and positive HPV results.
HR HPV testing by PCR of samples diagnosed according to the Bethesda 2001 guidelines may benefit the management of patients with ASC-US or patients with LSIL, especially among women age 30 years and older, by allowing exclusion from referral for biopsy of women who are negative for HR HPV types. However, the small numbers of women who had CIN-III detected after a diagnosis of ASC-US or LSIL limited the assessment of test sensitivity.
A positive hybrid capture test for high-risk HPV types was highly sensitive and specific for the presence of CIN II,III in patients with ASCUS and LGSIL on repeated Pap smears. We believe that improved methodology will eventually enable more selective colposcopy referrals without affecting patient safety among these women.
A liquid-based cytologic system provides adequate material for concomitant human papillomavirus testing. Addition of human papillomavirus testing to Thin-prep cytologic study provides significant gains in diagnostic accuracy over either cytologic study or human papillomavirus deoxyribonucleic acid testing alone.
A Pap smear triage threshold restricted to LSIL or more severe dysplasia for women with prior ASCUS or LSIL Pap smear results was clearly ineffective for detecting high-grade cervical precancerous lesions. In contrast, when the repeat Pap smear triage threshold was expanded to include persistent ASCUS as abnormal, 83% of the women with CIN 2/3 were detected. Detection of carcinogenic HPV DNA using the HCT test was almost as sensitive for detecting CIN 2/3 as a solitary repeat Pap smear using an ASCUS or more severe positive threshold. Combining the HPV test with a repeat Pap smear did not significantly improve the sensitivity of cytology for detecting high-grade CIN. This study suggests that women with ASCUS and particularly LSIL Pap smears should be referred for a colposcopy examination until better triage methods become available.
Testing for lower genital tract carcinogenic HPV DNA using a cervical cytology liquid transport media residual sample is clinically feasible. The new HC II microplate HPV test achieved a greater test sensitivity for detecting carcinogenic HPV and correspondingly of CIN 2/3 compared with the currently available first-generation HC HPV test. Use of a liquid-based cervical cytology system combined with intermediate triage by HC II testing of residual cells for carcinogenic HPV alone may help to efficiently identify CIN 2/3 in women who have a prior screening Pap smear report of ASCUS.
In our institution, 51% of ASC-US patients 20 years and younger were HPV(+). Colposcopy with subsequent histological diagnosis, available on 48 patients, demonstrated 11 (23%) of the HPV(+) group to have CIN 2/3. The American Society for Colposcopy and Cervical Pathology guidelines recommend observation (via repeat colposcopy and cytology) for adolescents with CIN 2 and treatment (via excision or ablation) for CIN 3. Human papillomavirus testing ASC-US adolescents in our institution may be "acceptable."
In this low-risk population of women aged >or=30 years, histology-confirmed CIN2+ lesions were identified in women with negative cytology and positive HR-HPV tests, as well as in those with positive cytology and negative HR-HPV tests. Because both cytology and HPV testing alone missed significant lesions, cotesting with Pap and HR-HPV in women aged >or=30 years appears to be a reasonable option in a low-risk population.
The NucliSENS EasyQ HPV assay has interesting clinical sensitivity and specificity for the detection of HPV types in CIN2+ patients and shows comparable diagnostic values with the HCII DNA assay. This assay allows simultaneous detection of HPV mRNA and determination of the type of the main prevalent oncogenic virus.
An RLU ratio of 10 or less was associated with a significantly lower prevalence of CIN 2,3 on biopsy outcome after a Pap test result of ASCUS. The much lower prevalence of underlying CIN 2,3 in patients who are weakly HPV-positive may justify modification of the management algorithm for this subset of women with ASCUS.
Cervical screening with liquid cytology in women with DD provides an overall rate of endocervical cells of approximately 44%-80% depending on the technique used. Although this is much lower than in the general population, this compares favorably with slide Pap smear in women with DD. The 44% yield of endocervical cells and the finding of abnormal Pap smears with the blind technique suggest this is a reasonable alternative for obtaining Pap smears in women with difficult pelvic examinations who otherwise would not receive cervical screening.
On the basis of the results, repeat testing of equivocal specimens might not be necessary as these specimens are overwhelmingly found to be positive for hrHPV. Additionally, hrHPV tests falling in the equivocal range should be considered as definite positive tests, as follow-up results in this cohort demonstrate that significant histologic abnormalities are associated with 10.5% of these cases (20/191), and with 33% of those biopsied (20/60) cases.
The percentage of high-grade CIN in the "equivocal" hrHPV cohort is highly significant and therefore the management of these patients should be similar to the unequivocally positive population. After an unequivocal positive hrHPV test, the hrHPV chemiluminescence intensity does not appear to further predict the rate of high-grade CIN.
The two-step PCR assay can give much information relative to the predictive value of different HR HPV types and can quantify the genotype-specific viral load. In particular, its ability to detect and quantify nine HR HPV genotypes can help provide more efficient and successful patient care and may be useful for the monitoring of the efficacy of HPV vaccines.
Among patients with ASC-H, a negative HR-HPV result was found to be an excellent predictor of the absence of HSIL. The results of this pilot study suggested that HPV-DNA testing may serve as a means to better select which patients with ASC-H on Pap smear should undergo colposcopic examination. This approach potentially may reduce medical costs and eliminate the need for routine colposcopic examination among patients with ASC-H Pap smears.
Hybrid capture was a simple solution hybridization method which provided a sensitive method of detecting CIN 2 and above lesions in women with minor PAP smear abnormalities. However, the sensitivity for CIN 1 and the specificity were low, meaning that further improvements in the technique are needed before it can be used as a triage strategy.
The relative frequency of HPV genotypes other than vaccine types in young females should be taken into account when evaluating vaccination strategies. Due to the high prevalence of HPV infection among the population studied, implementation of sex education in schools, promotion of condom use and an organized screening program to prevent cervical cancer must be encouraged for this age group.
ASC-H in pregnant women had a lower predictive value for an underlying HSIL compared with the general population. A positive HPV test result was not a good indicator for an underlying SIL, but a negative result appeared to be useful for ruling out an underlying HSIL. Because of low positive predictive value for HSIL and the difficult colposcopic examination, a more conservative follow-up may be reasonable for pregnant women who have a diagnosis of ASC-H. HPV testing may be used as an adjunctive test.
The diagnosis of ASC-H in postmenopausal Pap smears has a low predictive value in the subsequent diagnosis of high-grade squamous lesions in stark contrast to the pregnant, postpartum, and contraceptive-use categories. This suggests that age rather than hormone alterations affects the capacity of ASC-H to predict subsequent high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. In addition, there are no definite cytomorphologic criteria that can be used to distinguish reliably between benign cellular changes and possible high-grade squamous lesions in these Pap smears. Digene Hybrid Capture II testing, although helpful, does not have 100% correlation with subsequent tissue/Pap smear follow-up and cannot be used alone to triage this group of women for colposcopy.
With a 95% vaccine efficacy on CIN1 and theoretical vaccine coverage of 100%, HPV vaccination might prevent 27% (with a 16, 18 bivalent vaccine) and up to 32% (with a 6, 11, 16, 18 quadrivalent vaccine) of LSIL cases in France. In this study, LSIL related to HPV 16, 18 or 33 are at highest risk of progression to malignancy and thus could require a stringent surveillance. Conversely, anxiety and over-treatment could be avoided in women with low risk of progression.
The ASC-US and AGUS rates did not change statistically before and after the introduction of the Imager in our cytology laboratory. Although use of the Imager did not increase detection of HPV+ ASC-US, it did appear to increase the detection rate of HPV+ AGUS and subsequent abnormal biopsy follow-up rates in all categories. However, the increase in the detection rate did not reach the point of statistical significance.
Although in this setting, the use of hybrid capture DNA testing did not significantly improve the sensitivity or positive predictive value of the diagnosis of HGSIL cytology when compared to cytologically indicated plus colposcopically directed cervical biopsies in this population of women at high risk for the presence of disease, the combination of HGSIL pap smears and high-risk HPV did result in a clinically important increase in the diagnosis of moderate/severe dysplasia.
: This p16(INK4a) immunocytochemical assay has superior specificity but similar sensitivity to HR-HPV testing to predict underlying high-grade dysplastic lesions in patients who are referred for colposcopy. The determination of the overall performance characteristics of p16(INK4a) immunocytochemistry, as an independent test or in combination with HPV testing in low-risk screening populations, however, will require subsequent large-scale prospective clinical trials.
The results of the current study demonstrate that reflex HPV testing performed in a routine clinical practice helps to identify the majority of women with high-grade disease. However, testing may be more beneficial in older women (age > or = 30 years) with ASCUS. Strategy using out-of-vial reflex testing is more cost-effective and sensitive than referring all women for colposcopies.
All women with AGC should undergo a comprehensive initial examination regardless of HPV status. The presence of HPV identifies a group of women at higher risk for cervical disease who should be followed closely. Women positive for human papillomavirus with AGC and concurrent ASC/SIL are at even higher risk. If, after a comprehensive initial examination, women with AGC not-otherwise-specified and positive HPV have no identifiable disease, a cervical conization may be considered.
Among women with cervical atypia, a single follow-up Pap smear alone failed to detect one third of the cases of high-grade disease. Ninety-three percent of these cases were detected, however, with a follow-up Pap smear and an acetic acid wash. Our one subject with a high-grade lesion missed with this combination of tests had an unsatisfactory Pap smear. Use of both tests together may reliably guide clinical decisions regarding the management of cervical atypia.
When the result in triage is HPV mRNA positive, our data suggest direct treatment for women above 40 years of age or for women with a concurrent cytological HSIL diagnosis, contributing to better clinical safety for these women. In addition, by decreasing the time to treatment, thereby reducing the number of recalls, the patient management algorithm will be considerably improved, in turn reducing follow-up costs as well as unnecessary psychological stress among patients.
Interpretive variability is substantial for all types of cervical specimens. Histopathology of cervical biopsies is not more reproducible than monolayer cytology, and even the interpretation of LEEP results is variable. Given the degree of irreproducibility that exists among well-trained pathologists, realistic performance expectations should guide use of their interpretations.
Abbott RealTime HR HPV is a highly sensitive test for detection of high-grade cervical disease and cancer. The HPV 16 and HPV 18 typing capability of the test offers the advantage of stratifying patients at greater risk of progression and may thus aid in better patient care and management.
The HC2 test or pap test alone were not sensitive enough to detect all CIN2+lesions. A relatively high number of CIN2+cases emerged from the non-CIN-CIN1 group after 6 months. Adequate follow-up of patients with mild cytological abnormalities, including a repeat pap smear taken during colposcopy and control at 6 months is underscored. Combination of hrHPV DNA and pap test should be considered, since it had high negative predictive value.
Adding a MIB-1-test in human papillomavirus-positive women with equivocal cytology might reduce the number of colposcopies needed to predict > or = cervical intraepithelial neoplasia II. With this approach only four instead of 43 human papillomavirus-positive women would have been referred for colposcopy.
A repeat Papanicolaou smear combined with a HPV DNA test is a sensitive alternative to colposcopic evaluation for the detection of CIN in women referred for a previous low-grade abnormal Papanicolaou smear. However, because of the low specificity of this approach, it results in only modest cost reductions compared to the more standard triage of performing colposcopy at the first visit.
Although less complicated than colposcopy, the repeat Pap smear triage algorithm for ASCUS may underdiagnose some women with high-grade CIN, when compared with colposcopy. Considering the high sensitivity of HPV testing, it may be useful as an alternative to the current policy of six-month repeat cytology for women with ASCUS results.
The cell block preparation technique was complementary to LBC, and the authors concluded that the application of LBC combined with cell block preparations may improve the diagnostic accuracy of cytology. Immunostaining for p16 and Ki-67 on cell block preparations can help to improve the diagnostic accuracy of HSIL and SCC. A combined expression pattern of p16 and HPV L1 may serve as a valuable index for predicting prognosis and follow-up of cervical dysplastic lesions.
A positive high-risk HPV result associated with an unsatisfactory ThinPrep Pap test result identified patients at risk for diagnosis of an undetected squamous intraepithelial/cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Negative high-risk HPV results associated with an unsatisfactory LBC had high negative predictive value in this limited study. The overall low detection rate for significant disease on follow-up of all patients with unsatisfactory imaged LBC is similar to findings reported in another LBC study but differs from studies reporting increased risk for undetected disease in women screened with unsatisfactory conventional Pap smears.
AGC Pap results detected significant numbers of cervical and non-cervical neoplasias. Since 38 of 44 (86%) of AGC-detected carcinomas were endometrial or ovarian, HPV co-testing would not have aided screening in detecting the majority of malignancies diagnosed after AGC Pap results. Verification bias-adjusted Pap screening sensitivity in the laboratory for detection of significant neoplastic cervical disease was 93%.
This preliminary study evidenced that p16/Ki-67 immunostaining might have a relevant clinical role, since the dual staining was significantly associated with HR-HPV infection, particularly with HPV 16 and 18, and the increasing grade of the cervical lesions, the positivity for this biomarker being strongly related to the presence of a CIN2+ lesion.
Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV confirm the importance of the utilization of p16 in the categories ASC-US and LSIL after triage with an HR-HPV test. In the ASC-H and HSIL-CIN3 lesions, p16 was shown to be an excellent marker for picking up CIN2+ lesions, especially in cases with cytohistological discordance.
In the largest study to date to document histopathological follow-up of older women with LSIL and HPV test results, no histopathological CIN 2/3 diagnoses were identified in women 50 years and older with HPV-negative LSIL. HPV test results stratified women with LSIL cytology findings into lower- and higher-risk groups for follow-up histopathologic CIN 2/3 outcomes.
Triage of ASC-US with hrHPV testing showed a high sensitivity for the detection of CIN2+ and a high negative predictive value after 3 years of follow-up. The results of this study are in line with the current guidelines for triage of women with ASC-US in the target age range of 25-65. Non adherence to guidelines will lead to unnecessary medical interventions. Further investigation is needed to improve specificity of ASC-US triage.
The results indicate that high risk HPV DNA testing is highly sensitive and moderately specific for CIN grade 2 or worse in women younger than 36 years. LBC primary testing followed by high risk HPV DNA triage improved sensitivity and the false-positive rate for cervical cancer screening and are suitable for developed regions in China.
NASBA has favorable specificity and positivity rates for triaging LSIL prior to colposcopy. A relatively low sensitivity warrants cytological surveillance of the NASBA-negative LSILs. Flow cytometry does not perform as well overall.
Using 1 RLU/CO as the cutoff value, HR HPV testing was found to be highly sensitive for detecting CIN 2+ lesions in women with LSIL. The colposcopy rate was significantly lower in women aged ≥ 30 years compared with women aged < 30 years. Triaging with HR HPV testing may be indicated in women aged ≥ 30 years with LSIL cytology, but not in women aged < 30 years. Cancer (Cancer Cytopathol) 2011;. © 2011 American Cancer Society.
The results of this study show that p16/Ki-67 dual-stain cytology provided a high sensitivity for the detection of underlying CIN2+ in women with ASCUS or LSIL Pap cytology results, comparable to the rates previously reported for HPV testing and p16 single-stain cytology. However, the specificity of this morphology-independent interpretation of p16/Ki-67 dual-stain cytology testing was further improved compared with the earlier p16 single-stain cytology approach, which required morphology interpretation, and it is significantly higher when compared with HPV testing.
The results indicate that HR-HPV or p16(INK4a) cannot be used as solitary markers for the assessment of LSIL. The addition of p16(INK4a) immunostaining led to an increase in HR-HPV specificity; however, the biomarker needs to be assessed further to establish its role as an adjunct test in the triage of LSIL.
p16/Ki-67 testing could reduce referral to colposcopy by almost half while detecting the most severe cases of CIN3. The high sensitivity of p16/Ki-67 with significantly improved specificity compared with HPV testing makes p16/Ki-67 a viable option for LSIL triage. Further studies are required to evaluate p16/Ki-67 as triage marker in HPV-based screening strategies.
Management of women with atypical squamous cells (ASC) depends on whether the Papanicolaou test is subcategorized as of undetermined significance (ASC-US) or as cannot exclude high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) (ASC-H). Women with ASC-US should be managed using a program of 2 repeat cytology tests, immediate colposcopy, or DNA testing for high-risk types of human papillomavirus (HPV). Testing for HPV DNA is the preferred approach when liquid-based cytology is used for screening. In most instances, women with ASC-H, low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion, HSIL, and atypical glandular cells should be referred for immediate colposcopic evaluation.
A limited number of randomized controlled trials were identified in which diet and dietary supplement interventions appeared to slow disease progression in men with prostate cancer, although results vary. Studies were limited by reliance on the surrogate biomarker prostate specific antigen, sample size and study duration. Well designed trials are warranted to expand knowledge, replicate findings and further assess the impact of diet and dietary supplement interventions on recurrence and treatment associated morbidities.
We found no convincing evidence for a protective role of one-carbon metabolism against prostate cancer, although these observations can be generalized only to smokers. The possible modest protective association with vitamin B-6 and the significantly elevated risk with vitamin B-12 intake warrant further investigation.
Consumption of processed tomato products, containing lycopene, is of significant health benefit and can be attributed to a combination of naturally occurring nutrients in tomatoes. Lycopene, the main tomato carotenoid, contributes to this effect, but its role per se remains to be investigated.
Most men with a family history of prostate cancer take vitamins and supplements, some of which are believed to prevent future cancer occurrence. The results of this study and others provide some insight into the determinants of potentially beneficial health behaviors in high-risk individuals.
Complementary and alternative medicine use was associated with sociodemographic and clinical characteristics in this large sample of men with prostate cancer. These results should be considered by health care professionals counseling men with prostate cancer regarding diet and secondary prevention.
Our results show that tomato products may play a role in the prevention of prostate cancer. However, this effect is modest and restricted to high amounts of tomato intake. Further research is needed to determine the type and quantity of tomato products with respect to their role in preventing prostate cancer.
Given the high prevalence of use and that patients believed that alternative medicine improved their well-being, clinicians should show an open mind toward these treatment choices and encourage frank discussion. Familiarity and some knowledge regarding use of alternative medicine is important in cases where interactions between conventional and alternative medicine may occur. It is also important to identify potential patient needs for mental health support beyond conventional care and support patients who want to make healthful lifestyle changes. Longitudinal investigations are urgently needed to investigate associations of alternative medicine use with survival and quality of life in patients with cancer.
Our study suggests that radical prostatectomy is associated with significant erectile dysfunction and some decline in urinary function. These results may be particularly helpful to community-based physicians and their patients with prostate cancer who face difficult treatment decisions.
This study confirms the evidence of publication bias found in other studies and identifies delay in publication as an additional important factor. The study results support the need for prospective registration of trials to avoid publication bias and also support restricting the selection of trials to those started before a common date in undertaking systematic reviews.
No significant difference was detected between the treatment with mitoxantrone as a single agent and the combination of low-dose FEC in terms of response or survival; therefore, the imperative of the necessity of first-line combination chemotherapy for patients with high-risk metastatic breast cancer may be questioned. Since toxicity and quality of life score favored the single-agent mitoxantrone treatment arm, this treatment may be offered to patients preferring quality of life to a potential small prolongation of survival.
Calcium and vitamin D supplementation did not reduce invasive breast cancer incidence in postmenopausal women. In addition, 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels were not associated with subsequent breast cancer risk. These findings do not support a relationship between total vitamin D intake and 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels with breast cancer risk.
Calcium plus vitamin D3 supplementation did not reduce the risk of developing diabetes over 7 years of follow-up in this randomized placebo-controlled trial. Higher doses of vitamin D may be required to affect diabetes risk, and/or associations of calcium and vitamin D intake with improved glucose metabolism observed in nonrandomized studies may be the result of confounding or of other components of foods containing these nutrients.
Although 1-year HRT lowered serum total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, it did not influence oxLDL antibody titers. On the basis of the present results we cannot question the possibility of there being beneficial effects of HRT on the oxidative modification of LDL. However, this effect is not reflected in the levels of oxLDL autoantibodies.
Our results confirm the positive long-term effect of HRT with sequential estradiol valerate and cyproterone acetate on serum lipid concentrations. In addition, the results suggest that vitamin D3 supplementation may have unfavorable effects on lipids in postmenopausal women. Pure vitamin D3 treatment was associated with increased serum LDL cholesterol. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of HRT on serum LDL cholesterol content were reduced when estradiol valerate was combined with vitamin D3. However, the relevance of these associations to cardiovascular morbidity remains to be established.
In these early postmenopausal, non-osteoporotic and relatively healthy women, the increased fall risk associated with the PP genotype was not associated with increased fracture risk, possibly due to improved bone strength during the HRT although falls generally predispose to fractures.
Approximately two-thirds of this rural population fell below 80 nmol/L, a value considered to be the lower end of the optimal range. Based on the slope of 25(OH)D on supplement dose observed in these women, it would require an additional vitamin D input of nearly 2000 IU/d to reach the goal of an RDA for vitamin D, i.e., to bring 97.5% of the cohort to levels of 80 nmol/L or higher.
The nonclassic actions of vitamin D are cell specific and provide a number of potential new clinical applications for 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) and its analogs. However, the use of vitamin D metabolites and analogs for these applications remains limited by the classic actions of vitamin D leading to hypercalcemia and hypercalcuria.
The unmonitored subcutaneous administration of nadroparine in fixed daily doses was more effective than oral acenocoumarol with laboratory control adjustment in achieving recanalization of leg thrombi. With nadroparine, there was less late valvular communicating vein insufficiency, and it was at least as efficacious and safe as oral anticoagulants after long-term administration. These results suggest that LMWHs may therefore represent a real therapeutic advance in the long-term management of DVT.
Oral ximelagatran was superior to placebo for the extended prevention of venous thromboembolism. There was no significant increase in the frequency of bleeding complications, but there was an increase in the number of patients with a transient elevation in the alanine aminotransferase level.
A fixed daily dose of tinzaparin for 6 months was at least as effective and safe as UFH and acenocoumarol. Regarding major events and recanalization, there was a significant benefit in favor of tinzaparin. Long-term DVT treatment with tinzaparin could represent an alternative to conventional treatment.
Oral ximelagatran administered in a fixed dose without coagulation monitoring, was as effective as enoxaparin/warfarin for treatment of deep vein thrombosis with or without pulmonary embolism and showed similar, low rates of bleeding. Increased levels of liver enzymes in 9.6% of ximelagatran-treated patients require regular monitoring; the mechanism requires further evaluation. Prospective assessment of coronary events in future studies is warranted.
Long-term home treatment with tinzaparin or usual care resulted in similar rates of recurrent venous thromboembolism, death, and bleeding. The significantly lower incidence of post-thrombotic syndrome and leg ulcers observed in the tinzaparin group is a potentially important benefit and deserves further study.
After isolated C-DVT, 6 weeks of oral anticoagulation is sufficient. For P-DVT or PE, we demonstrated an equivalence between 3 and 6 months of anticoagulant therapy. For patients with temporary risk factors who have a low risk of recurrence, 3 months of treatment seems to be sufficient. For patients with idiopathic venous thromboembolism or permanent risk factors who have a high risk of recurrence, other trials are necessary to assess prolonged therapy beyond 6 months.
This pilot study provided proof of principle that supervised aerobic training is safe and feasible for postsurgical NSCLC patients. Aerobic exercise training is also associated with significant improvements in QOL and select cardiopulmonary endpoints, particularly among patients not receiving chemotherapy. Larger randomized trials are warranted.
Whether patients suffer from chronic lung disease or not, they do not regard the postoperative outcomes reported in the lung surgery literature as sufficiently morbid to forego important surgery. However, physical debility is perceived as extremely undesirable, and anticipation of its occurrence could deter surgery. Therefore, identification of preoperative predictors of postoperative physical debility would be invaluable for counseling patients who face difficult decisions about lung resection.
Preoperative exercise training is a beneficial intervention to improve cardiorespiratory fitness in patients undergoing pulmonary resection. This benefit may have important implications for surgical outcome and postsurgical recovery in this population. Larger randomized controlled trials are warranted.
There is an increasing risk of endometrial cancer associated with longer tamoxifen treatment, extending well beyond 5 years. The increased risk of endometrial cancer associated with tamoxifen treatment should be considered clinically for both premenopausal and postmenopausal women during treatment and for at least 5 years after the last treatment.
Daily supplementation of calcium with vitamin D for seven years had no effect on the incidence of colorectal cancer among postmenopausal women. The long latency associated with the development of colorectal cancer, along with the seven-year duration of the trial, may have contributed to this null finding. Ongoing follow-up will assess the longer-term effect of this intervention. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00000611.).
Liver resection may be achieved in some previously unresectable patients with the help of an effective chemotherapy. The benefit in survival seems comparable to that obtained with primary liver resection (40% at 5 years). This therapeutic strategy involves a multimodal approach, including repeat hepatectomies and extrahepatic surgery.
The GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen allow an R0 surgery in approximately 1 out of 5 unselected patients with initially unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer, and the long-term survival of resected patients is considerable. Neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI for 3-6 months is safe and not associated with severe liver injury.
Long-term fatigue was highly prevalent among over half of postoperative patients with breast cancer, and moderate/severe fatigue was associated with social and psychological factors such as social support, anxiety and depression. Our results suggest that overall nursing care may be a more effective manner in improving fatigue and quality of life.
In what to the authors' knowledge is the largest reported analysis of adjuvant RT in patients with locally advanced HNSCC published to date, adjuvant RT resulted in an approximately 10% absolute increase in 5-year cancer-specific survival and overall survival for patients with lymph node-positive HNSCC compared with surgery alone. Despite combined surgery and adjuvant RT, outcomes in this high-risk population remain suboptimal, emphasizing the need for continued investigation of innovative treatment approaches.
To prevent ORN, irradiated dental patients should maintain a high level of oral health. A preradiation referral for a dental evaluation and close collaboration by a multidisciplinary team can be invaluable for radiation patients. As with most other dental patients, restorable and healthy teeth should be retained in irradiated patients. The use of prophylactic HBO or antibiotics should be reconsidered for preradiation and postradiation extractions.
The results show that maintenance therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib produces a significant PFS and OS benefit for unselected patients with advanced NSCLC compared with placebo or observation. Given the less toxicity of TKIs than chemotherapy and simple oral administration, this treatment strategy seems to be of important clinical value.
In patients with advanced NSCLC the use of more than 4 cycles of first-line chemotherapy with third-generation regimens significantly increases progression-free survival but not overall survival and is associated with higher incidence of adverse events. There is no evidence to support continuous chemotherapy until progression in patients with lung cancer.
Pazopanib monotherapy was relatively well tolerated, with toxicity similar to other small-molecule, oral angiogenesis inhibitors, and demonstrated promising single-agent activity in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Further studies evaluating the potential role of pazopanib in patients with ovarian cancer are ongoing.
Cediranib induced a rapid but variable rise in BP within 3 days of initiation in most patients. Proteinuria was common and also developed rapidly. The rapid development of hypertension suggests that acute inhibition of VEGF-dependent vasodilation might explain the BP rise with VEGF inhibitors. Clinicians must be vigilant in early detection and management of toxicities of this expanding drug class, especially in older patients.
Although a substantial number of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer experience gastrointestinal obstruction, the rate of gastrointestinal perforation and/or fistula is relatively low. Treatment with bevacizumab does not significantly increase gastrointestinal toxicity compared to standard salvage chemotherapy.
In patients with small HCC, the percutaneous approach achieved similar tumor control with lower morbidity compared with the surgical approach and should be the preferred approach provided that tumor location is suitable. For medium HCC, the surgical approach seems to achieve better overall survival and may be a preferred option.
In patients with small HCCs within the Milan criteria, hepatic resection should still be employed for those patients with a single tumor and well-preserved liver function. RFA should be chosen for patients with an unresectable single tumor or those with multinodular tumors, regardless of the grade of liver damage. In order to increase long-term oncological control, surgical RFA seems preferable to percutaneous RFA, if the patient's condition allows them to tolerate surgery.
RFA is a safe, well-tolerated, and effective treatment to achieve tumor destruction in patients with unresectable hepatic malignancies. Because patients are at risk for the development of new metastatic disease after RFA, multimodality treatment approaches that include RFA should be investigated.
The evidence in the medical literature showed RFA was more effective than other local ablative therapies, and supported its use in the treatment of unresectable small HCC, recurrent small HCC, and as bridging therapy before liver transplantation, and as a primary treatment in competition with partial hepatectomy for resectable small HCC.
During the first postoperative days, the outflow of the exocrine secretion of the pancreatic remnant is low but contains a high enzyme concentration with significant leaks within the peripancreatic area. S-14 infusion results in a decrease of pancreatic juice leaks from the pancreatic remnant.
Lanreotide induced a statistically significant reduction in the output volume with respect to placebo in the first 6 hours after administration, but not thereafter. The present results encourage a new study to be undertaken in a larger sample and with a multiple dosing scheme of treatment.
MCTT was delayed by octreotide, suggesting impairment of small bowl treatment. Octreotide administered at the clinical dosage for pancreatic surgery accelerates gastric emptying, mainly by shortening the lag time. Suppression of postprandial CCK release may be involved in this process. Octreotide administration is therefore not a contributing factor in the pathogenesis of delayed postoperative gastric emptying after PD and might even play a role in preventing this complication.
The review revealed that perioperative octreotide is associated with a significant reduction in the incidence of pancreatic fistula after elective pancreatic surgery. However, this risk reduction was not associated with a significant difference in postoperative mortality; further studies are warranted to confirm the results of this metaanalysis and to define which patient subgroups might benefit the most from prophylactic octreotide administration.
The earlier finding that longer survival was associated with supportive-expressive group therapy was not replicated. Although it is possible that psychosocial effects on survival are relevant to a small subsample of women who are more refractory to current hormonal treatments, further research is required to investigate subgroup differences.
MCGP appears to be a potentially beneficial intervention for patients' emotional and spiritual suffering at the end of life. Further research, with larger samples, is clearly needed to better understand the potential benefits of this novel intervention.
The findings of the current study are encouraging, particularly because it was conducted through TWC, a national agency willing to make this type of intervention readily available at no cost. A limitation of the current study was the lack of randomization and a control group comparison. Although the authors were not able to demonstrate effectiveness without the addition of a control condition, the analysis of pregroup and postgroup outcomes suggests that a randomized trial is worthwhile. Women with a devastating disease will join and commit themselves to an online support group. In addition, because a large percentage of these women were from rural locations, this type of intervention may hold promise for those who have limited access to support groups.
Although the family intervention had positive effects initially, these effects were not sustained over time. Future studies need to consider program dose and duration of effect, outcome measures that are more sensitive to change, and realistic end-points for patients with advanced cancer.
These results suggest that Internet based peer-to-peer interactions may not necessarily be universally beneficial despite the positive experiences reported by many participants. Further research is needed to understand the magnitude of this effect with a larger sample. Moreover, these results raise questions about the need to understand the comparative effectiveness of Internet-based communications by group structure (i.e., unstructured/structured; unmoderated/moderated) and the effect of content (i.e., expression of fear/anxiety, insightful disclosures, etc.) on outcomes.
This meta-analysis presented reasonable evidence that depression predicts mortality, but not progression, in cancer patients. The associated risk was statistically significant but relatively small. The effect of depression remains after adjustment for clinical prognosticators, suggesting that depression may play a causal role. Recommendations were made for future research to more clearly examine the effect of depression on cancer outcomes.
These concussive or impact convulsions are probably a non-epileptic phenomenon, somewhat akin to convulsive syncope. The mechanism may be a transient traumatic functional decerebration. In concussive convulsions the outcome is universally good, antiepileptic treatment is not indicated, and prolonged absence from sport is unwarranted.
Periodic chest roentgenography and bone scan allow earlier detection of distant metastases, but anticipated diagnosis appears to be the only effect of intensive follow-up, and no impact on prognosis is evident after 5 years. Periodic intensive follow-up with chest roentgenography and bone scan should not be recommended as a routine policy.
RRP and BT are two different options for the treatment of low-risk CaP, which produce different short-term sequelae in terms of urinary disorders and erective functions, but similar biochemical disease-free survival. Further studies with a higher number of patients and a longer follow-up are needed to evaluate their comparative effectiveness on overall disease-specific survival and metastatic disease.
Different surgical approaches for the treatment of localized prostate cancer affect the shortterm QoL results in different ways. Urinary, sexual, and bowel function and bother are affected to a similar degree by ORP, LRP, and dVP. In an older population, the tissue destruction resulting from PCryo appears to relieve obstructive and irritative urinary symptoms but at the sacrifice of sexual function compared with (103)Pd.
Gross hematuria after brachytherapy resolves spontaneously in nearly all patients. Nonetheless, in patients without a recent workup for a genitourinary malignancy other than prostate cancer, a hematuria workup is reasonable. Because of the retrospective nature of this study and the highly variable presentation and clinical course of postimplant gross hematuria, we are unable to make firmer conclusions or recommendations regarding the role of follow-up urinalysis, urine cytology, anticoagulant medication, or supplemental beam radiation. Such an analysis will require a more controlled, prospective study of a large implant patient population.
Results of permanent seed implantation improved with the introduction of strands, however, better staging and the increase in activity per cm(3) prostate volume also contributed to this improvement. A significant better result was obtained with pre-planning. Categorisation in risk groups corresponds very well with treatment outcome. Finally, a strong relation is found with PSA nadir.
Target motion occurs during the course of treatment planning and delivery and should be considered when designing conformal radiation fields. Although the target position at the time of planning CT may differ substantially from the mean treatment position, target motion cannot be predicted by evaluating simply measured parameters from a single scan, or double scan sequence.
Prostate brachytherapy is being promoted as an effective treatment option for clinically localized prostate cancer that offers a low risk of complications. The low rate of urinary incontinence, bladder outlet obstruction, and erectile dysfunction was confirmed by analyzing a nationwide cohort of men. Rectal complications were also consistent with those described in published studies. The limitations of claim information in determining patient outcomes, however, must be kept in mind when evaluating these data.
Physical and mental health was found to be comparable in the study cohort of partnered and unpartnered men treated for prostate cancer. The universally high socioeconomic status of the current study cohort may mitigate differences in HRQOL by partnership status.
To enhance the clinical relevance of outcome analysis we grouped men by baseline function to help discern their likely levels of bother and function after treatment.
EBXRT and BT appear to be equally efficacious for low-risk patients having T(1)/T(2) disease with Gleason scores <6 and PSA <10 ng/dl. Patients with Gleason scores 8-10 or PSA >10 ng/dl-<20 ng/dl) appear to fare worse with BT alone compared with EBXRT. Neither EBXRT nor BT were particularly effective for patients with a presenting PSA >20 ng/dl.
The following should be immediately implemented for (103)Pd dosimetry: 1) All practicing physicians, physicists, dosimetrists, and suppliers implement NIST-1999 air-kerma strength standard for (103)Pd brachytherapy. 2) All treatment planning systems and dose calculation algorithms must be updated to reflect new dose rate constants. The AAPM-recommended validated value for Theraseed model 200 is 0.665 cGy h(-1) U(-1). The dose rate constant for the Mentor MED3633 seed is currently reported as 0.68 cGy h(-1) U(-1). This latter value and the values for seeds from other manufacturers are awaiting independent confirmation. 3) Physicians who previously prescribed 115 Gy for (103)Pd monotherapy prostate implants should now prescribe 125 Gy. When using (103)Pd as a boost following 45 Gy of external beam irradiation, 100 Gy should be prescribed instead of the previous 90 Gy. It is critical that all three changes be implemented concurrently, because they are interdependent.
Although cardiovascular mortality was the predominant cause of death, prostate cancer was responsible for approximately 10% of all deaths. In particular, overall survival was poorest in the high-risk group. Although high-risk patients were most likely to die of prostate cancer, the divergence in overall survival between high-risk and lower-risk patients primarily resulted from an excess of cardiovascular deaths. Changes in lifestyle to improve cardiovascular health may improve overall survival in patients with clinically localized prostate cancer.
For high-risk prostate cancer patients receiving brachytherapy, there is a nonsignificant trend toward improved bPFS, CSS, and OS rates when brachytherapy is given with WPRT. This trend is most apparent among ADT-naïve patients, for whom a significant improvement in OS was observed.
There are mild variations in personality as measured by the BFI between patients undergoing treatment for localized prostate cancer. Certain BFI-measured personality traits may be associated with levels of satisfaction following therapy. Disease concerns and provider recommendations may override the influence of personality in the decision-making process.
Both therapies showed typical acute and late morbidity; the most bothersome late symptoms were urinary incontinence for patients after RP and fecal soiling after BT. Sexual function was impaired significantly in patients who were potent before RP + NS, whereas after BT men reported only a minor change in sexual performance at 1 year. Tumour control after a median follow-up of 27 months was better after RP but biochemical recurrence may still occur after > or = 5 years; therefore the present results are not mature enough and there were too few patients to provide a more definitive statement. As approximately 18% of patients considered to be appropriate candidates for BT had tumours extending beyond the prostate capsule or invading the seminal vesicles, nomograms are needed for more accurate information before therapy.
At an average of 7.5 months after treatment the general health related quality of life of patients undergoing brachytherapy with and without pretreatment external beam radiation was similar to age matched controls, although urinary, bowel and sexual problems were reported. These problems appeared to improve during the first year after treatment. Much of the impairment in disease specific health related quality of life among patients undergoing brachytherapy may be attributed to pretreatment radiation.
This matched pair analysis failed to demonstrate a difference for 125I and 103Pd in PSA-RFS for patients undergoing TIPPB. In addition, there were no observed advantages for either 125I or 103Pd in either the low or high Gleason score groups. This data indicates that the role of isotope selection for patients undergoing TIPPB requires further clarification.
Pretreatment dysfunction does not appear to reliably influence treatment choices, and patients receiving mismatched treatments had worse outcomes. Further study is needed to determine why mismatched treatments were chosen, including the role of incomplete patient-physician communication of baseline dysfunction, and whether using a validated questionnaire before treatment decision-making would bypass this difficulty. Treatment mismatch may be a useful outcome indicator of the quality of patient-centered decisions.
The need for hormonal therapy in favorable-risk brachytherapy patients (PSA < 20 ng/mL) might be less than the need for intermediate- or high-risk patients. The use of hormonal therapy in intermediate-risk patients (PSA >/= 20 ng/mL) treated with HDR brachytherapy and pelvic EBRT is appealing, considering the favorable results. High dose rate brachytherapy appears to be an effective treatment for clinically localized and locally extensive prostate cancer, with minimal morbidity.
The frequency of PSA testing is strongly associated with the detection of bF and cF. Because it is a variable that can be controlled, PSA testing frequency should be standardized to minimize spurious conclusions from studies with bF and cF endpoints. The sensitivity and specificity can be optimized by obtaining 2 PSA tests per year.
Low-risk patients had estimates of 5-year PSA outcome after treatment with RP, RT, or implant with or without neoadjuvant androgen deprivation that were not statistically different, whereas intermediate- and high-risk patients treated with RP or RT did better then those treated by implant. Prospective randomized trials are needed to verify these findings.
The large number of cases available for this study permits a validation of radiation safety recommendations and provides concrete information from which the permitted exposure times following implantation can be estimated. The data support the conclusion that patients treated with these implants do not represent a radiation risk to members of the public.
In the next few years, we hope to clarify the role of high NVB radiation doses on potency, by correlating NVB dose calculations with a large number of patients enrolled in an ongoing I-125 versus Pd-103 trial for early-stage patients, for whom detailed dosimetric and potency data are being collected prospectively. In the future, we anticipate that NVB doses may be incorporated into dosimetry guidelines to maximize tumor control and minimize treatment-related morbidity.
Independent of the setting, about 50% of all Gleason score assignments made on needle biopsy specimen are revised in the direction of a worse score/category. It is important for clinicians to realize this phenomenon when consulting with patients regarding treatment choices if the grade is taken into consideration. For outcome research purposes, it is important to realize that this introduces a bias into direct comparisons between surgical and nonsurgical (radiation and watchful waiting) series favoring the outcomes of surgical series as the nonsurgical series suffer from a less favorable patient mix.
Overall BMT and RP are well tolerated procedures that cause mild changes in general HRQOL. Disease specific HRQOL patterns are different in patients treated with BMT or RP. Baseline and serial HRQOL measurements after treatment can provide valuable information regarding expected quality of life outcome after treatment for localized prostate cancer.
Shortly after undergoing treatment for localized prostate carcinoma, men who underwent radical prostatectomy, older men, and African-American men are at heightened risk for experiencing prostate-specific and general deficits in HRQoL. Having psychosocial resources from which to draw may enhance HRQoL.
Relevant differences between treatment groups persisted after 2 years of follow-up. Radical prostatectomy had a considerable negative effect on sexual functioning and urinary continence. Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy had a moderate negative impact on bowel functioning, and brachytherapy caused moderate urinary irritation. These results provide relevant information for clinical decision making.
Biochemical failure definitions applying a PSA threshold at or after the nadir (e.g., threshold 3) demonstrated the highest association with CF, OS, and CSS for all assessed treatment modalities. Definitions incorporating a PSA increase above the nadir value (e.g., nadir + 2 ng/mL) were also superior for all modalities. In general, BF definitions have greater predictive capacity for clinical outcome with brachytherapy or neoadjuvant AD than EBRT alone, possibly because of less "noise" from production of background PSA.
Of patients with prostate cancer treated with a monotherapy approach we noted better urinary continence in those who underwent radiation based therapies, and better bowel function and less urinary irritation in those who underwent surgery. Sexual function was impaired across all monotherapies but higher scores were seen in men who selected brachytherapy.
Comparison of voiding function indicated that HBTC and HBT patients initially have more obstructive voiding symptoms, whereas urinary incon- tinence is initially worse in RP patients. Initially RP patients demonstrated worse SF and SFB scores, but RP patients returned to HBTC levels within 18 months.
There are significant differences in resource utilization for contemporary patients undergoing definitive local therapy for prostate cancer. These differences may have a significant effect on treatment cost and morbidity, and they will likely make short-term comparisons between different treatment modalities difficult because of the high use of androgen deprivation in men treated with radiation therapy.
For patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer, brachytherapy-based treatment and the addition of AD to SD-EBRT resulted in improved biochemical outcomes compared with the outcomes with SD-EBRT alone; however, these findings were dependent on the definition of biochemical failure used. The year of treatment may be an important prognostic factor in intermediate-risk prostate cancer.
Interactive transperineal fluoroscopic-guided and biplane ultrasound-guided brachytherapy is a novel, potentially curative salvage modality for patients in whom prior radiotherapy failed. In a population of patients with poor prognosis, this modality was associated with a high rate of local prostate cancer control and a 34% actuarial rate of biochemical disease-free survival at 5 years. The incidence of major complications after salvage brachytherapy appears to be lower than that after other potentially curative salvage procedures, such as radical prostatectomy and cryoablation. Salvage brachytherapy warrants further investigation.
While HDR (192 iridium) and LDR (103Pd) monotherapy maintained the same biochemical control, the use of HDR brachytherapy as monotherapy was associated with decreased rates of acute urinary frequency, urgency, dysuria and rectal pain compared to LDR. Chronic urinary frequency, urgency and grade 2 rectal toxicities were also decreased with HDR. A dramatic decrease (66%) was noted in the rate of sexual impotency with HDR. In addition, patients treated with HDR did not remain radioactive after treatment. There was a decrease in cost from not purchasing seeds per patient. HDR monotherapy as prostate cancer treatment resulted in the same biochemical control with much lower toxicity. It is an accepted, convenient, cost-effective method of prostate brachytherapy for patients with favorable risk prostate cancer.
This study suggests that high BMI and total food consumption are independent risk factors for prostate cancer and that dietary habits are important in the development of this tumor. It is also unlikely that neither tobacco nor alcohol use substantially changes the risk of prostate cancer.
Quality of life 2 years after treatment for prostate cancer shows wide variability. Radical prostatectomy had the largest negative impact on the sexual and urinary incontinence domains. Differences between external radiation and brachytherapy were relatively small. Brachytherapy led to a moderate increase in urinary irritation compared to the other 2 groups.
In general, patients who received brachytherapy chose this treatment because of quality of life considerations, whereas "cure" and complete removal of the tumor were the main motivations for patients selecting radical prostatectomy. Long-term data are needed to evaluate distress and decisional regret as patients experience treatment-related chronic side effects and efficacy outcomes. Decision-making aids or other interventions to reduce decisional difficulty and emotional distress during decision making were indicated.
These data on the motivations for patient choices relating to CM are novel; the sources of information, both positive and negative, that patients find useful in their decision to use these therapies were explored. Interestingly, physicians were generally supportive of the use of such approaches.
The results of largely conformal three-dimensional external beam treatment of localized prostate cancer produced 5-year bNED results that are comparable to recent reports of nerve-sparing prostatectomy. Preliminary 7-year bNED results in all patients and in patients with localized tumors indicated a modest decrease in the cancer-free rate from that observed at 5 years, suggesting the results are durable.
I-125 brachytherapy alone achieved excellent rates of medium-term biochemical control in both low- and selected intermediate-risk localized prostate cancer patients. Postimplant dosimetry improved with experience and longer follow-up, confirming the relationship of D(90) with biochemical control.
Patient age and neoadjuvant hormonal therapy are independent, significant determinants of sexual HRQOL after prostate brachytherapy. These factors should be taken into consideration when counseling patients with localized prostate cancer regarding the expected, postimplantation sexual HRQOL outcome.
Men expressing regret over treatment choice for localized prostate cancer have poorer health related quality of life. Further study is needed to identify factors that predict posttreatment regret. Such information will allow patients and physicians to individualize treatment decisions, optimize quality of life and avoid medical regret.
Age at diagnosis, time from treatment and primary treatment type affect health related quality of life. Treatment has a greater impact on disease specific than general health related quality of life. All treatments adversely affect urinary and sexual function. Most adverse changes develop immediately after treatment. Recovery occurs mostly within 2 years after treatment with little change beyond 3 years.
In terms of HRQoL, RP and HDR-BT did not differ, but HDR-BT resulted in better urinary and sexual function than RP. When planning treatment, QoL concerns, including mental health issues associated with prostate cancer, need to be addressed with the patients, as do the potential side-effects.
With long follow-up, most patients who underwent radiotherapy for prostate cancer in the era described exhibit somewhat worse bladder, bowel, and erectile function than recently published controls without prostate cancer. In this cohort of older men with long follow-up, erectile function is similar to reported prostatectomy series. However, patient bother related to erectile function is similar to that of controls in earlier published radiotherapy series. Worse urinary and bowel function may be due to progressive symptoms with aging and longer follow-up, or to the radiotherapy techniques performed during the era in question.
The study demonstrates that survivors from localized prostate cancer treated with an association of BT and EBI have good global health status. Major problems that persist are sexual disorders, urinary incontinence and cystitis while digestive disorders were rare. This association could be an alternative to standard EBI in patients with localized prostate cancer. Whatever the treatment choice, patients should be involved in the therapeutic decision which should consider not only expected survival rate but also quality of life.
Radiobiological models support the current clinical evidence for equivalent outcomes in localized prostate cancer with either LDR or HDR brachytherapy using current dose regimens. However, HDR brachytherapy dose escalation regimens might be able to achieve higher biologically effective doses of irradiation in comparison to LDR, and hence improved outcomes. This advantage over LDR would be amplified should prostate cancer possess a high sensitivity to dose fractionation (i.e., a low alpha/beta ratio) as the current evidence suggests.
Transperineal interstitial seed implantation is perceived by many as more cost-effective than radical prostatectomy for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer. We demonstrated that when such patients were followed for 1 year, the comprehensive charges for radical prostatectomy and interstitial brachytherapy were equivalent.
The 3-dimensional computerized tomography guided pararectal permanent implant results in a high level of biochemical control with low morbidity at 2 to 8 years in patients with prostate cancer who have a large prostate. There was less favorable biochemical control in patients with PSA greater than 20 ng./ml., Gleason 7 or greater and seminal vesicle invasion.
Patients treated with BTC had an overall lower quality of life compared with those treated by RP and BTM, and RP patients reported fewer irritative or obstructive voiding complaints. Although the consistency and magnitude of these trends require further study, our data suggest that RP remains a well-tolerated and accepted option.
With the increasing use of prostate BT the number of patients with severe rectal injury will likely continue to increase. Radiotherapy induced RUF carries significant morbidity and most patients are treated initially with fecal and urinary diversion. In properly selected patients good outcomes can be expected following repair using BMG for the urethral defect along with colo-anal pull-through or primary rectal repair and gracilis muscle interposition.
The results of this analysis suggest that significant decreases in HRQOL, as measured by the FACT-P instrument, are evident in the first month after IB or RP, but not after EBRT. One year after treatment, however, the FACT-P scores were not statistically different from the baseline measures for any group. For all treatment groups, most of the HRQOL decreases were observed in the physical, functional, and prostate cancer-specific domains. These results suggest that the HRQOL changes are likely to be treatment-specific, further emphasizing the importance of a randomized trial comparing the different treatment options in this population of men.
We have placed into clinical use an integrated system of conformal radiation treatment that incorporated the inverse method of treatment design and the use of dynamic multileaf collimation to deliver intensity-modulated beams. The system can provide better treatment design, which can be implemented reliably and safely. We are hopeful that improved treatment efficacy will result.
Alternative medicine use is very prevalent among patients treated for localized prostate carcinoma. Because some of these treatments may have a potential biologic impact on tumor behavior and, consequently, on definitive or surrogate therapeutic endpoints, patients should be questioned carefully regarding alternative medicine use during routine tumor follow-up.
Patients undergoing surgery, external beam radiation or brachytherapy have different longitudinal profiles of bowel function and bother during the first 2 years after treatment. Bowel function and bother are worse after external beam radiation but they are also impaired after brachytherapy. Men choosing surgery experience transient impairment in the bowel domains. This information may be useful to patients making treatment decisions for early stage prostate cancer.
In the current study, treatment for localized prostate cancer was found to differentially affect HRQOL outcomes. Urinary control and sexual function were better after EBRT, although bilateral nerve-sparing surgery diminished these differences among potent men undergoing RP. BT caused more obstructive and irritative symptoms, while both forms of radiation caused more bowel dysfunction. These results may inform medical decision-making in men with localized prostate cancer.
The described method of analyzing rectal surface area irradiated yields interesting insight into understanding rectal complications in prostate conformal radiotherapy. Application of the method to a larger patient data set has the potential to facilitate the construction of a full dose-surface-complication relationship, which would be most useful in guiding clinical practice.
The total charges associated with brachytherapy appear similar to those associated with RP, although RP had relatively lower technical costs. Without a clear cost advantage of USBT over RP, the choice of therapy should continue to be primarily influenced by tumor characteristics, treatment efficacy, and patient preference.
In a study of sequential health related quality of life assessments brachytherapy and cryotherapy were associated with higher urinary function and bother scores compared to open radical prostatectomy and da Vinci prostatectomy. Brachytherapy was associated with higher sexual function and bother scores compared to open radical prostatectomy, robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy and cryotherapy.
Pelvic EBRT interdigitated with a transrectal ultrasound guided HDR boost is an excellent method of delivering a high radiation dose to the prostate without rendering the patient radioactive. This trial showed high overall, cause specific and no biochemical evidence of disease survival. For this unfavorable group of patients the addition of a course of 6 months or less of neoadjuvant/concurrent AST to a high radiation dose did not appear to confer a 5-year therapeutic advantage. However, it added side effects and the significant cost of hormones.
This prospective study reports the first large-scale comparison of urologic outcomes after two different seed implant techniques. Both were associated with very low urinary retention rates or other grade 3 or greater urologic morbidity. Almost all men had worse urinary symptoms for the first 6 to 9 months, regardless of the seed implant technique used. Patients treated with the intraoperative method demonstrated toxicity for a longer duration. Because of the much better gland isodose coverage and greater doses delivered in the intraoperative seed implantation, we favor this method.
After prostate brachytherapy, the actuarial 5-year incidence of urethral strictures is 5.3% with a median time to development of 26.6 months. All strictures involved the membranous urethra and occurred within the first 44 months after brachytherapy. In most cases, membranous urethral strictures are easily managed with dilatation/incision. Factors predicting for the development of a urethral stricture included the magnitude and extent of high-dose regions within the prostate, the mean membranous urethra dose and the dose 20 mm distal to the prostatic apex, the maximum extent along the membranous urethra of certain dose levels, and the duration of hormonal manipulation.
In multivariate analysis, PSA nadir, TZI, patient age, months to PSA nadir, follow-up, and preimplant PSA velocity were predictive of a PSA spike. However, when only variables identifiable prior to a spike were evaluated, TZI, patient age, preimplant PSA velocity, and first postimplant PSA were the strongest predictors for a PSA spike.
The multifactorial R-FAS elucidated fine gradations in bowel function of a severity less than RTOG Grade 3 morbidity. Of multiple clinical, treatment, and dosimetric parameters evaluated, only the minimum dose received by 5% of the rectum (D5) correlated with rectal dysfunction via the R-FAS instrument, while none of the evaluated parameters predicted for bowel dysfunction using the RTOG survey. Following permanent prostate brachytherapy, the ability to discern subtle changes in rectal function is dependent on the sensitivity of the survey instrument.
Prostate brachytherapy results in a high probability of 8-year biochemical progression-free survival for low, intermediate, and high-risk patients. When integrated across risk groups and hormonal status, BMI had no statistically significant influence on biochemical progression-free survival.
After brachytherapy, androgen-deprivation therapy did not have an impact on cause-specific or overall survival for any risk group; however, ADT had a beneficial effect on biochemical progression-free survival in high-risk patients. Cardiovascular disease and second malignancies far outweighed prostate cancer as competing causes of death.
Brachytherapy represented a small component of the overall pattern of care for prostate carcinoma patients in the U.S. during the interval studied. However, the rate of use of this modality for patients with localized prostate carcinoma increased substantially over the 5-year interval. This may reflect a trend toward more conservative management of prostate carcinoma. Additional monitoring and analysis of the more recent use of brachytherapy for the treatment of prostate carcinoma patients is warranted.
We confirmed the impact of the extent of nerve sparing (unilateral vs bilateral nerve sparing radical prostatectomy) and highlighted the effect of preoperative erectile function as measured by the International Index of Erectile Function and age at surgery on postoperative sexual function. Our data can be used for counseling patients undergoing radical nerve sparing prostatectomy regarding recovery of erectile function.
In making its recommendations, the panel presented treatment alternatives as options, identifying the advantages and disadvantages of each, and recommended as a standard that patients with newly diagnosed, clinically localized prostate cancer should be informed of all commonly accepted treatment options.
Many men who are bothered by posttreatment ED reported never having tried medications or devices to improve their erections. The lack of ED therapy was more prevalent among patients with erectile concerns after brachytherapy or 3D-CRT than after radical prostatectomy, suggesting possible opportunities for improving sexual HRQOL among long-term survivors.
Depressive symptoms appears to predict a wider range of QOL outcomes (measured 4-12 months after treatment) than treatment type; however, when treatment is significant its effect sizes are slightly larger than depressive symptoms. Health care providers should (1) assess depressive symptoms in prostate cancer patients before and after treatment, and (2) provide psychosocial (e.g., counseling, support groups) and pharmacologic treatment options for improving depressive symptoms.
A transient rise in the PSA following TIPPB, the so-called "bounce" is a common occurrence. The apparent PSA control of ten of twelve cases failing by the ASTRO criteria raises some concern. Further observation will be necessary to determine ways to discriminate these from true disease progression.
Clinical and biochemical outcomes in the treatment of Japanese patients in Hawaii suffering from localized prostate cancer, using transperineal interstitial permanent prostate brachytherapy, with or without external beam irradiation, compared favorably to results in similarly treated patients in the general US population.
These results are in accordance with the most recent results published after conformal EBT at the same 80 Gy level of dose. If confirmed on a higher number of patients they could place brachytherapy among the most accurate methods of boosting in the radiation treatment of prostatic carcinoma.
At the present time, there is no evident dosimetric superiority of one Bt method when all the criteria are taken into account. However, improving Bt techniques to implant any prostatic size could found the superiority of the 125I or permanent implants. 125I indeed allows large hyperdosage volumes inside the CTV in comparison with 192Ir HDR techniques while lowering doses to OR and minimizing CS.
Men who receive radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer have an increased risk of bladder cancer compared to patients undergoing radical prostatectomy and compared to the general population. The risk of rectal cancer is increased in patients who receive external beam radiotherapy compared to radical prostatectomy. Patients should be counseled appropriately regarding these risks.
Regardless of prostate size, isotope did not impact IPSS resolution, catheter dependency, or the need for postbrachytherapy surgical intervention. Although prostate size did predict for short-term (<5 days) catheter dependency, it did not influence IPSS resolution or the need for surgical intervention.
In patients with low-risk prostate cancer, brachytherapy and 3D-CRT remain excellent treatment choices, regardless of the tumor volume as estimated by the PPBCs. Longer follow-up and the recruitment of men with a greater volume of disease (>50% PPBCs) are needed to confirm these preliminary findings.
There are many advantages in HDR-B, but the most important ones are the capability of on-line dosimetry, quality control and the procedure being very conformal. There is a low incidence of GU and GI acute and late morbidity with acceptable bNED when treating initial and locally advanced prostate cancer with HDR-B as a boost to EBRT, but we still need to wait for results of phase III open trials that analyze HDR-B and conformal therapy.
Three-dimensional CRT irradiated less bladder and rectum volume than SRT; CRT initial reimbursement was 28% higher than SRT and 12% higher than radical prostatectomy. Because of projected better local tumor control, average total cost of treating a patient with 3D CRT or radical prostatectomy is equivalent to cost of SRT. Treatment morbidity was lower with 3D CRT. Our findings reflect an overall benefit with 3D CRT as a new promising technology in treatment of localized prostate cancer. Dose-escalation studies may enhance its efficacy and cost benefit.
PSA kinetics differ significantly following different radiotherapy methods. A lower nadir and a higher biochemical control rate suggest a higher radiobiological efficiency of brachytherapy in comparison to EBRT (with a dose of 70.2 Gy).
Using comparative end points for biochemical-free progression, failure rates may be higher following 125I interstitial radiotherapy compared to anatomic radical prostatectomy. These data provide a better comparison of biochemical progression than previously published studies and emphasize the need for caution in interpreting the relative efficacy of brachytherapy in controlling localized prostate cancer.
The American Brachytherapy Society recommends that postimplant CT-based dosimetry be performed for all patients treated with TIPPB. This prospective study identified that the D90 dose > or =90% of the prescribed dose can be used as a factor for predicting PSA-RFS in patients treated with brachytherapy. A dose-response using the D90 dose was observed for several typical clinical treatment variations used in the practice of TIPPB. Using the D90 dose appears to be a satisfactory parameter for predicting outcome in patients treated with TIPPB.
The quality of permanent prostate brachytherapy as measured by the D(90) was the most significant predictor for BFR in this study cohort at 10 years. Furthermore, adding external beam radiotherapy and/or hormonal therapy as adjuvant therapies did not independently predict for BFR. Overall, the reported 10-year BFR rates in this study were favorable. Strategies for ensuring the best quality implant should be used and, when reporting brachytherapy outcomes, the implant quality should be noted.
Gleason sum 7 tumors in patients treated with PPB represent a heterogeneous group of patients based on the differentiation of Gleason Grade 3 + 4 tumors vs. 4 + 3 disease. This information confirms similar conclusions identified in patients treated with external beam radiation and is useful when determining prognosis after PPB.
Isotope selection does not appear to influence biochemical relapse-free survival in patients treated with monotherapy PPB. There was a significant difference (p=0.014) in time to reach a PSA threshold of <or=1.0 ng/ml noted between (125)I and (103)Pd. However, the percentage of delivered dose relative to the time to reach the threshold was the same between (125)I and (103)Pd. This information is important for during patients their post-PPB period.
PPB offers acceptable 12-year BFR in patients who present with clinically localized prostate cancer. Implant dosimetry continues as an important predictor for BFR, while the addition of adjuvant therapies such as hormones and external radiation are insignificant. In patients who experience biochemical failure it appears that PSA doubling time is an important predictor of survival.
These data demonstrate at least an 80% pathologically confirmed local control rate following permanent interstitial brachytherapy for early stage prostate cancer. A higher local control rate is expected with further follow-up as the majority of indeterminate biopsies convert to negative over time. The indeterminate category of postirradiation biopsy described here includes specimens that have probably been interpreted as positive in other series, but correlate clinically and biochemically with negative biopsies. These results support the use of modern interstitial brachytherapy techniques for selected patients with early stage adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
Percutaneous prostate brachytherapy is a valid and efficient option for treating patients with clinically organ-confined, low to high Gleason grade, prostate carcinoma. Observed 10-year follow-up documents serum PSA levels superior to those reported in several published external beam irradiation series, and comparable to those published in a number of published radical prostatectomy series.
Prostate brachytherapy provides excellent long term disease control with few late failures reported in the authors' program. The addition of external beam radiation appears to confer survival advantages in selected patients. Using the ASTRO failure criteria for long term follow-up resulted in no significant difference compared with using a PSA failure point of 0.5 ng/mL.
Radical prostatectomy yielded a proportionately but not statistically significant higher 7-year probability of nonprogression than 125I brachytherapy in patients with favorable clinicopathological characteristics. Comparisons are confounded by residual differences in clinicopathological features of tumors between groups and different treatment end points to determine outcomes. Further prospective, randomized clinical trials are required for valid comparisons.
Each prostate-cancer treatment was associated with a distinct pattern of change in quality-of-life domains related to urinary, sexual, bowel, and hormonal function. These changes influenced satisfaction with treatment outcomes among patients and their spouses or partners.
Complications requiring unplanned procedures may occur after brachytherapy, and may be increased significantly after brachytherapy combined with EBRT. These data reinforce the concept that quality assurance and technique are important in prostate brachytherapy, but, even when these are in place, complications can occur, especially when EBRT is added to brachytherapy.
The great majority of men who survive prostate carcinoma do not achieve a return to functional sexual activity in the years after treatment. The priorities a man places on sexuality and on having a sexually functional partner are important factors in sexual satisfaction at follow-up, over and above the influence of age and medical factors.
Significant associations were observed between the frequency of SIC and the number of seeds implanted, AUA scores, prostate volume, PSA levels, addition of XRT, and isotope used. Whereas the first four of these factors may be surrogates for prostate volume and obstructive symptoms in general, the last two factors are related to treatment decisions. These findings may aid in better patient selection and therapeutic decisions. Additionally, this information may provide a clearer understanding of the urinary side effects of TIBBP.
Our long-term results confirm favorable outcomes after permanent prostate brachytherapy in men younger than 60 years. Outcomes are impacted by disease related risk factors but not by age or clinical stage. Definitive treatment options for younger men with clinically localized prostate cancer should include permanent prostate brachytherapy.
Estimated PSA control rates in this pooled analysis are similar to those of single institutions. These rates indicate the probability of success for subsets of patients with tumors of several prognostic category groupings. These results represent a multi-institutional benchmark for evidence-based counseling of prostate cancer patients about radiation treatment.
The various treatments for localised prostate cancer each have persistent effects on quality of life. Sexual dysfunction three years after diagnosis was common in all treatment groups, whereas poor urinary function was less common. Bowel function was most compromised in those who had external beam radiotherapy. Men with prostate cancer and the clinicians who treat them should be aware of the effects of treatment on quality of life, and weigh them up against the patient's age and the risk of progression of prostate cancer if untreated to make informed decisions about treatment.
Invasive treatments for localized prostate cancer have little impact on general QoL but significantly affect disease-specific domains. Both ORP and LRP have a greater initial negative impact on urinary and sexual function than (103)Pd. The differences among the treatments with regard to QoL provide information to patients faced with choosing a treatment.
The pathologic features and outcome of patients treated at low PSA levels are favorable and similar for patients with PSA < or = 2.5 versus 2.6-4.0. However, > 50% of the former have potentially biologically unimportant cancer. We failed to identify a therapeutic benefit to the diagnosis of cancers below accepted PSA thresholds for biopsy.
The 8-year outcomes after this regimen showed favourable biochemical and distant control, as well disease-specific survival rates for patients with Gleason scores of 8-10. This treatment approach should be considered as a viable option for this subset of patients with high-risk disease.
We addressed the relative importance of radiation dose vs hormonal therapy for intermediate risk prostate cancer. With high biologically effective dose combination treatment androgen suppressive therapy did not have a significant impact on the 8-year biochemical failure-free rate. We question its routine use in this setting.
These data demonstrate high biochemical and local control in men with T1-T2 prostate cancer treated with I brachytherapy. The delivered radiation dose and risk category are important predictors of success. Patients receiving a dose of at least 140 Gy have a 90% chance of biochemical FFF and a 95.2% likelihood of local control.
Low pretreatment testosterone level may be a marker for men at increased risk of premature death with ADT. The combination of low pretreatment serum testosterone level and multiple preexisting comorbidities is associated with decreased OS when ADT is incorporated into treatment.
Long-term bowel symptoms are infrequent after brachytherapy alone. Urinary incontinence is common, although usually only a few drops and not daily. Erectile dysfunction, prevalent in populations of older men, was found in most men. However, because our study design precluded documenting baseline symptoms before treatment and subsequent clinical interventions, the contribution of factors other than brachytherapy is unclear. The morbidity of patients receiving more recent brachytherapy may be less.
This is the first report to evaluate the chronologic changes in subjective parameters (IPSS) and objective parameters (uroflowmetry) and PV, concurrently. The changes in subjective parameters correlated with the changes in objective parameters during the first 12 months after seed implantation. The change in the PV was different after seed implantation in patients with or without neoadjuvant hormonal therapy.
There is a low incidence of PRF formation after BT monotherapy. Because all patients who developed PRF did so subsequent to prior rectal biopsies, the authors currently are discouraging such practices strongly if the rectal lesion is consistent with radiation-induced effects.
These data suggest that in the absence of LH-RH agonist use 3-D conformal radiation therapy and transperineal prostate brachytherapy have a similar impact on erectile function and overall satisfaction. Differences observed in erectile function and overall satisfaction in the 2 groups of patients who received adjuvant LH-RH may be due to the different duration of therapy (3 versus 8 months). Longer followup will be needed to evaluate this hypothesis.
HDR and LDR chronic urinary toxicity grade 2 or greater rates were equivalent. However, grade 1 was lower for HDR. The impotence rate was decrease by half with HDR. Neoadjuvant hormonal therapy and 14 or greater needles were significantly associated with increased chronic urinary toxicity on multivariate analysis.
The current data suggest that interinstitutional and interspecialty comparisons of treatment outcome for patients with prostate carcinoma are possible but that results must be based on all major prognostic variables to be meaningful. Analyzed in this fashion, 5-year PSA results were similar for patients in low-risk and intermediate-risk groups, regardless of the form of therapy. Findings from prospective, randomized trials using survival (cause specific and overall) as the end point for judging treatment efficacy and longer follow-up will be needed to validate these findings and to identify the most appropriate management option for patients with all stages of disease.
Toxicity spectrum and quality of life after permanent seed implantation for early prostate cancer are acceptable for nearly all patients (98%). To further improve tolerance we should attempt to achieve a better dose homogeneity, i.e. by reducing D(50). Therefore, special attention should be given to D(50) during the real-time planning process. The necessity of more homogeneous dose distributions might imply a reduction of the activity per seed, e.g. from 0.7 mCi down to 0.6 mCi.
For both isotopes, the lower activities studied systematically result in lower EIs. If seeds can be placed within approximately 0.5 cm of their intended position (103)Pd should be preferred because its EI is lower than that of (125)I. For all activities the coverage indices and D90 are within the required range. If seed placement uncertainties are larger than 0.5 cm, (125)I provides slightly better target coverage; however, in terms of external volume (healthy tissue) covered, (103)Pd is superior to (125)I.
In assessing erectile dysfunction after radiation, the MSEFS correlates well with, but cannot be replaced by, the IIEF-5, which is weighted toward one's degree of sexual desire. More insight into patients' erectile function after brachytherapy may be gotten if the IIEF-15 is used instead of the IIEF-5 with our MSEFS.
The incidence of severe late complications after high dose 3D-CRT was minimal. Radiation doses > or =75.6 Gy and the presence of acute treatment-related symptoms during 3D-CRT correlated with a higher incidence of Grade > or =2 late GI and GU toxicities. In addition to higher doses, the use of androgen deprivation therapy increased the likelihood of permanent impotence in these patients. Intensity-modulated radiotherapy, which makes it possible to enhance the conformality of the dose distribution, has recently been implemented in an attempt to reduce the incidence of moderate grade toxicities in patients receiving high dose 3D-CRT.
Outcome after permanent BT for prostatic cancer relates to tumor stage, Gleason score, pretreatment PSA, BT year, and post-BT dosimetric quality. PSA nadir < or =0.5 ng/mL was particularly associated with durable long-term PSA disease-free survival. The only controllable factor to impact on long-term outcome was the D90 which is a reflection of implant quality.
The present population-based study indicates that RP and BT are associated with improved survival outcomes. Further studies are warranted to improve clinical determinates in the selection of appropriate management of CaP and to improve predictive modeling for which patient subsets may benefit most from definitive therapy vs. conservative management and/or observation.
Under a wide range of assumptions, for a 65-year-old man, active surveillance is a reasonable approach to low-risk prostate cancer based on QALE compared with initial treatment. However, individual preferences play a central role in the decision whether to treat or to pursue active surveillance.
Nomograms incorporating pretreatment variables (clinical stage, Gleason grade, PSA and the amount of cancer in a systematic biopsy specimen) can predict the probability that a man with prostate cancer has an indolent tumor. These nomograms have good discriminatory ability and calibration, and may benefit the patient and clinician when the various treatment options for prostate cancer are being considered.
When applied to a mature series of surgically treated patients with localized prostate cancer, the American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology "nadir+2" definition resulted in a systematic delay in the determination of biochemical failure. Because patients in this series who experienced a detectable PSA level took more than 5 years to progress to a PSA level of 2 ng/mL or greater, the 5-year biochemical control rates with the definition of 0.2 ng/mL or more should be compared with the 10-year biochemical control rates using the nadir+2 definition.
If the strong evidence is accepted that cancer progression is proportional to cancer volume, it was concluded that prostate cancers larger than 0.5 ml appear to correspond to the 8% of men who will be diagnosed with a clinically significant carcinoma, as derived previously. Conversely, those 80% of prostate cancers smaller than 0.5 ml probably are not likely to reach a clinically significant size in view of the long doubling time of this cancer.
With adequate follow-up, 44% of PSA failures by the Phoenix definition in our cohort were found to be benign PSA bounces. Our study reinforces the need for adequate follow-up when reporting PB PSA outcomes, to ensure accurate estimates of treatment efficacy and to avoid unnecessary secondary interventions.
I believe that there is no better way to cure organ confined cancer than total surgical removal. Today continence and potency rates should be high. If not, a review of intraoperative videotapes of successful and unsuccessful cases can improve results. In men treated with radiotherapy stringent criteria for treatment response and quality of life outcomes are needed.
Prophylactic gastrojejunostomy significantly decreases the incidence of gastric outlet obstruction without increasing complication rates. There were no differences in quality of life between the two groups. Together with the previous randomized trial from the Hopkins group, this study provides sufficient evidence to state that a double bypass consisting of a hepaticojejunostomy and a prophylactic gastrojejunostomy is preferable to a single bypass consisting of only a hepaticojejunostomy in patients undergoing surgical palliation for unresectable periampullary carcinoma. Therefore, the trial was stopped earlier than planned.
The efficacy of 5-FU, modulated with 6S-LV, is moderate in patients with advanced gastric carcinoma, similar to cisplatin-containing regimens. PS and other prognostic factors could influence the response rate, which does not appear to be a reliable parameter for evaluating the outcome of chemotherapy trials.
This study shows that this new combination, that does not include 5-fluorouracil, is active in patients with advanced gastric carcinoma. Since treatment with 5-fluorouracil alone is still considered the standard according to some authors, the PAM combination may be included among the sequential clinical options before or after treatment with 5-fluorouracil alone.
Combination regimens containing daily bolus 5-FU/LV and oxaliplatin or irinotecan can be associated with severe gastrointestinal toxicity and high mortality rates. Therefore, the authors recommend the use of more tolerable infusional 5-FU-based regimens in the treatment of metastatic CRC.
Embolization of the tumor vessels with hyperthermal dilute lipiodol is more thorough due to its better fluidity. The thermocoagulation of the hyperthermal dilute lipiodol becomes stronger for its higher specific heat. It is therefore a good technique for the treatment of primary hepatocellular carcinoma.
The best strategy to minimize the problems associated with early stopping of RCTs for benefit is not to stop early. As an alternative, we suggest a threefold approach: a low P-value as the threshold for stopping at the time of interim analyses, not to look before a sufficiently large number of events has accrued and continuation of enrollment and follow-up for a further period.
RECIST missed all CRs and underestimated the extent of partial tumor response because of tissue necrosis, wrongly assessing the therapeutic efficacy of locoregional therapies. This evaluation should incorporate the reduction in viable tumor burden as recognized by nonenhanced areas on dynamic imaging studies.
Stopping a trial early must depend on the clinical context. It is most important to stop a placebo-controlled trial as soon as possible when the experimental treatment can be shown deleterious. In such a situation the triangular test is more appropriate than the Lan & DeMets method. When a treatment effect is no different from, or better than, placebo the triangular test is also superior but the importance of premature termination of the trial in such cases has to be balanced against the inevitable reduction of information that the trial can provide.
This combined analysis of two trials of postmenopausal patients with advanced breast carcinoma has clearly demonstrated that, after disease progression with tamoxifen, treatment with anastrozole 1 mg once daily results in a statistically and clinically significant advantage over a standard treatment, megestrol acetate. This important benefit, in addition to the good tolerability profile of anastrozole, supports the use of this drug as a valuable new treatment option for this patient population.
These data confirm that durable SD (> or = 24 weeks) is a clinically useful remission criterion in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer with predictive value for overall survival. It also confirms the value of this endpoint with anastrozole, a new generation aromatase inhibitor.
Fadrozole HCL was as efficacious as megestrol acetate in postmenopausal patients with metastatic breast carcinoma after one hormonal therapy. Adverse experiences were mild with both therapies, but megestrol acetate was associated wiht a higher frequency of weight gain, fluid retention and dyspnea, whereas fadrozole HCL was associated with a higher frequency of nausea and vomiting.
Both aminoglutethimide and tamoxifen produced responses in postmenopausal patients with breast cancer, and a significant number of crossover responses were observed. Of interest in this randomized study was the observation that one institution had a markedly different response rate on induction, reinforcing the need for multi-institution trials in Phase III studies.
Anastrozole provides a more consistent and significantly more effective suppression of oestradiol compared with formestane. Similar results were observed for oestrone and oestrone sulphate. The clinical significance of these differences in total oestrogen suppression remains to be established.
Overall, exemestane has no detrimental effect on cholesterol levels and the atherogenic indices, which are well-known risk factors for coronary artery disease. In addition, it has a beneficial effect on TRG levels. These data, coupled with E's excellent efficacy and tolerability, support further exploration of its potential in the metastatic, adjuvant and chemopreventive setting.
Fadrozole and tamoxifen showed similar efficacy as first-line treatments in postmenopausal patients with advanced breast cancer. Fadrozole was significantly better tolerated and may therefore be an appropriate alternative to tamoxifen, especially for patients predisposed to thromboembolic events.
Anastrozole is an effective and well-tolerated preoperative therapy, producing clinically beneficial tumor downstaging and reductions in tumor volume. These effects enable more minimal surgical interventions in patients scheduled for mastectomy, and mastectomy in patients with previously inoperable tumors. Anastrozole appears to be at least as effective as tamoxifen in this setting, and more effective than tamoxifen in certain clinically relevant subgroups. Cancer 2006. (c) 2006 American Cancer Society.
Fadrozole has good therapeutic effect as a second-line treatment in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. In this study there was no significant difference in toxicity or response between 1 mg/d and 4 mg/d. Further trials comparing fadrozole to other hormone treatment are indicated.
As compared with a single autologous stem-cell transplantation after high-dose chemotherapy, double transplantation improves overall survival among patients with myeloma, especially those who do not have a very good partial response after undergoing one transplantation.
VOD incidence and severity was reduced in the defibrotide group which suggests that defibrotide might be effective in preventing and treating VOD. Sufficiently powered randomised trials are now required to definitively test the role of defibrotide in this setting.
Daily physical-rest activities represent variables which probably reflect complex mental physiologic and metabolic interactions. Thus, activity-rest monitoring provides a new dimension in the evaluation of medical and drug interventions during palliative treatment of patients with cancer.
Exercise training is feasible in advanced and metastatic NSCLC patients during anticancer treatment. In this pilot study, endurance and strength capacity improved over time, indicating the rehabilitative importance of the applied intervention. To investigate the potential impact of exercise training in this patient group, a larger randomized trial is warranted.
Individuals with advanced cancer appear to benefit from exercise for improving functional mobility. Neither resistance nor cardiovascular exercise appeared to have a strong differential effect on outcome.
Functional capacity is a strong independent predictor of survival in advanced NSCLC that adds to the prediction of survival beyond traditional risk factors. This parameter may improve risk stratification and prognostication in NSCLC.
Muscle quality is reduced in cancer patients. The degree of impairment of lower limb muscle mass, quality and function and the impact on quality of life varies with weight-loss and sex.
Antifungal prophylaxis reduced morbidity, as evidenced by reductions in the use of parenteral antifungal therapy, superficial fungal infection, and invasive fungal infection, as well as reducing fungal infection-related mortality. These effects were most pronounced in patients with malignant disease who had prolonged neutropenia and HSCT recipients.
Selenomethionine at 2,200 mug/d did not allow the safe escalation of irinotecan beyond the previously defined MTD of 125 mg/m(2). None of the patients receiving 125 mg/m(2) of irinotecan had grade >2 diarrhea. Unexpected responses and disease stabilizations were noted in a highly refractory population. Further escalation of selenomethionine is recommended in future trials to achieve defined protective serum concentrations of selenium.
Data indicate that Se and Zn supplementation may improve the clinical course of general conditions in patients with gut cancer. These effects of Se and Zn require confirmation in an independent trial of appropriate design before new public health recommendations regarding Se and Zn supplementation can be made.
The prevalence of the use of complementary therapy among patients with or at increased risk for prostate cancer was high and dependent on the disease state. Urologists should be aware of this pattern of use, and consider the potential effects when assessing patients for and with prostate cancer.
Based on morphological and sialoscintigraphic findings, a cytoprotective effect on acute toxicity of rat salivary glands could be detected under irradiation with synchronous application of sodium selenite. In addition, no effects on tumor response and metastasis frequency were observed. The general animal constitution was not affected by additional medication with sodium selenite during irradiation.
High concentrations of sodium selenite can counteract the decrease of proliferative activity caused by irradiation in human endothelial cells and thus exert a radioprotective effect on these cells. This effect was observed by far stronger in endothelial cells than in tumor cells, implying the possible clinical use of sodium selenite as a protective agent for normal tissue in radiotherapy.
The majority of patients with occult unresectable colorectal hepatic metastases had bilobar disease or extrahepatic spread. Despite the process of patient selection that leads to an attempt for curative resection, patients with occult unresectable disease identified at exploration suffer from poor survival that approximates the outcome of patients never considered for resection.
HP-LN involvement was the most significant prognostic indicator in patients with colorectal liver metastases. Positive LNs of area 1 should no longer be considered an absolute contraindication to liver resection, but in case of area 2 lymph node involvement, liver resection does not seem justified.
There is a need for more evaluation of lymph node involvement, at least in patients with high risk of such an extension, i.e., patients with more than three metastases, located in segment 4 or 5. There is also a need for prospective trials in order to evaluate the survival benefit of liver resection in such circumstances and the impact of extensive lymphadenectomy.
Our findings confirm hepatic resection as an effective procedure when undertaking combined bowel and hepatic resection. The applicability and the outcome of this surgical strategy is definitively influenced by the chance of a radical resection of the primary tumor, the number of hepatic metastases, resection margin wider than 1 cm, positive portal nodes, and the absence of any extrahepatic metastatic disease.
Fatigue continues to be a problem for breast carcinoma survivors many years after cancer diagnosis, with 21% reporting persistent problems with fatigue. Several factors that may contribute to long-term fatigue are amenable to intervention, including depression and comorbid medical conditions.
This study provided a systematic evaluation of the yoga and cancer literature. Although some positive results were noted, variability across studies and methodological drawbacks limit the extent to which yoga can be deemed effective for managing cancer-related symptoms. However, further research in this area is certainly warranted. Future research should examine what components of yoga are most beneficial, and what types of patients receive the greatest benefit from yoga interventions.
The perception that infusional delivery of chemotherapeutic agents adds to the cost of cancer care is appropriate for some regimens but the absolute amount of cost increment is generally modest. The principle cost differences between bolus and infusional schedules relate to drug dosage and the toxicity profile. Generally, but not consistently, infusional schedules use lesser doses and are associated with lesser toxicity. Although the benefit of infusional delivery of chemotherapy in terms of response rates and survival are comparable to bolus schedules for 5-FU infusion and 5-FU + LCV in colon cancer, this has not been established for the regimens analyzed for breast cancer (CMF, CA) or lymphoma (CDE, CHOP). The misperception of cost advantages for bolus delivery should not preclude comparative trials of bolus versus infusional chemotherapy schedules and cost should be studied prospectively in clinical trials comparing different schedules of administration in addition to studies of quality of life and toxicity.
Cross-sectional frozen-section recurrence rates can compare favorably with Mohs micrographic surgery. The cross-sectional frozen-section technique generated a cost savings over Mohs surgery that may not hold true for all practice settings. Margin size did not adversely affect aesthetic results. Loupe magnification x2.5 is important in our technique. We also offer a useful definition for recurrence.
Mohs micrographic surgery is a very safe outpatient procedure when performed by appropriately trained physicians. The types of complications seen in our patients were identical to those seen in hospitalized patients described in previous studies. Our complication rates were equal to or lower than the published complication rates from specialists in other surgical disciplines.
At present, it does not seem cost-effective to introduce MMS on a large scale for both primary and recurrent BCC. However, because a 5-year period is normally required to determine definite recurrence rates, it is possible that MMS may become a cost-effective treatment for recurrent BCC.
Non-infiltrative BCC excision with 4 mm margins gave a zero recurrence rate. Long term follow up of such patients may be unnecessary. Infiltrative BCCs should be followed up indefinitely. Previous recurrence and infiltrative histology have predictive value for recurrence. We achieved one of the lowest recurrence rates reported in non-Mohs surgical excision. Direct closure was applicable in 72% of cases.
In the setting of a tertiary referral center, incomplete primary resection of an eyelid skin cancer is the main risk factor for recurrence. Incomplete resection is significantly associated with medial canthus location and morpheaform type of BCC and with moderately differentiated SCC. MMS is the safer technique after incomplete tumor excision.
Carefully performed, modified en face frozen section controlled excision of periocular BCCs yields cure rates comparable to Mohs micrographic surgery at 5-year follow-up. Close communication with a skilled pathologist is essential to achieve these low recurrence rates. The fact that lesions involved the right periocular region more than the left may reflect greater sun exposure on that side from driving.
Indocyanine green lymphography is a safe and convenient evaluation method for lymphedema that allows qualitative pathophysiologic assessment of lymphedema. The arm dermal backflow stage, based on indocyanine green lymphographic findings, is a simple severity staging system that demonstrates a significant correlation with clinical stage. Indocyanine green lymphography may come to play an important role in early diagnosis of secondary arm lymphedema.
It is interesting to find that among pT1N0 patients, who were not regarded as a target of chemotherapy, those receiving chemotherapy showed significantly better prognostic results. These findings suggest the necessity of further studies on the adjuvant chemotherapy, even in the early stages.
Risk communication interventions may be most productive if they include individual risk estimates in the discussion between professional and patient. Patient decisions about treatment appear more amenable to change by these interventions than attendance for screening or modification of risky behavior.
Our study showed that the adequacy, accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic rate of LBC were equivalent to those using conventional smear methods. Although the diagnostic rate of NPC was lower using brush cytology than by punch biopsy, further improvements in the sampling technique could make brushing cytology a potential tool for NPC screening.
For diagnosis of NPC, EBV DNA identifies almost all false-negative IgA-VCA cases and gives a 99% diagnostic sensitivity when combined with IgA-VCA. In the screening setting, EBV DNA identifies three-fourths of false-positive IgA-VCA cases. The selective application of EBV DNA in an IgA-VCA-based screening protocol could improve screening accuracy with only moderate increases in cost.
The results suggest that plasma EBV DNA detection is a more sensitive and specific marker than the serum IgA/VCA titer for the diagnosis and monitoring of patients with NPC. These findings provide convincing evidence for the use of plasma EBV DNA measurements for the early diagnosis and staging of NPC as well as for monitoring recurrence and metastasis of this tumor.
When patients with NPC had their disease staged according to the AJCC 1997 classification system, patients with Stage I disease had an excellent outcome after they were treated with radiotherapy alone. Patients with Stage II disease, especially those with T1-T2N1 disease, had a relatively worse outcome, and more aggressive therapy, such as combined-modality treatment, may be indicated for those patients.
Within the limitations of this retrospective study, it appears that untreated early stage lung cancer has a poor outcome, with > 50% of patients dying of lung cancer. Surgery remains the treatment of choice, but lung cancer screening programs will result in increasing numbers of medically inoperable patients with no clear policies for their management.
No randomised trials compared a policy of immediate radical radiotherapy with palliative radiotherapy given when patients develop symptoms. In the absence of such trials, radical radiotherapy appears to result in a better survival than might be expected had treatment not been given. A substantial, though variable, proportion of patients died during follow up from causes other than cancer. The optimal radiation dose and treatment technique (particularly with respect to mediastinal irradiation) remain uncertain.
The techniques provide a straightforward approach to the analysis of incidence rates in cluster randomized trials. Both the unadjusted analysis and the analysis adjusting for confounders are shown to be robust, even for very small numbers of clusters, in situations that are likely to arise in randomized trials.
Fifty percent of patients with sickle cell anemia survived beyond the fifth decade. A large proportion of those who died had no overt chronic organ failure but died during an acute episode of pain, chest syndrome, or stroke. Early mortality was highest among patients whose disease was symptomatic. A high level of fetal hemoglobin predicted improved survival and is probably a reliable childhood forecaster of adult life expectancy.
Perinatally infected infants are at particular risk of death between 2 and 6 months: cotrimoxazole prophylaxis and early pediatric HAART should be scaled up. Uninfected infants of infected mothers have at least twice the mortality risk of infants born to uninfected mothers: all HIV-exposed infants should be targeted with child survival interventions. HIV-positive mothers with more advanced disease are not only more likely to infect their infants, but their infants are more likely to die, whether infected or not: provision of antiretroviral treatment to pregnant and lactating women is an urgent need for both mothers and their children.
Mortality was higher among HIV-infected and HIV-exposed infants than among HIV-unexposed infants. However, the immunologic profiles of breast milk among HIV-infected women were intact, and discontinuation of breast-feeding was the primary risk for infant morbidity. Thus, the breast milk of HIV-infected women may confer protection against common infant pathogens.
Only approximately one-half of HIV-infected Zambian children who were alive at 9 months of age survived to 3 years of age, supporting the urgent need for the prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and the early diagnosis and treatment of HIV infection in children in sub-Saharan Africa.
Trial reports often failed to provide details on how adverse drug reactions were defined or recorded. The absence of such methodological information makes comparative evaluation of adverse reaction rates potentially unreliable. Authors and journals should adopt recommendations on the structured reporting of adverse effects.
Perinatal mortality and neonatal morbidity-mortality according to gestational age before and after the 32nd week were similar in HELLP syndrome compared with severe preeclampsia-eclampsia without HELLP but overall fetal mortality was higher in HELLP syndrome with no regular prenatal care.
The rate of intracranial hemorrhage is higher among infants delivered by vacuum extraction, forceps, or cesarean section during labor than among infants delivered spontaneously, but the rate among infants delivered by cesarean section before labor is not higher, suggesting that the common risk factor for hemorrhage is abnormal labor.
Despite the retarded removal of TRL lipids by STA and STE in the statin-treated subjects with FH, improvement of the fasting lipid profile was suggested important in consideration of combination of cholesterol absorption inhibitor with statins even in FH.
STE reduces LDL cholesterol, but increases serum, lipoprotein, and red cell plant sterol levels in statin-treated FH subjects, while all the respective values are decreased with STA. Recent predictions that elevated serum plant sterols pose an increased coronary risk suggest that increases of serum plant sterol levels should be avoided, especially in atherosclerosis-prone individuals, such as subjects with FH.
Previous national dietary guidelines primarily emphasized avoiding saturated fat and cholesterol; as a result, the guidelines probably underestimated the potential LDL cholesterol-lowering effect of diet. In this study, emphasis on including nutrient-dense plant-based foods, consistent with recently revised national guidelines, increased the total and LDL cholesterol-lowering effect of a low-fat diet.
Because the fish oil supplement contributed negligible amounts of cholesterol and saturated fat to the diet, the n-3 fatty acids most likely caused the observed effects. These findings indicate that relatively small amounts of fish oil can have beneficial effects on plasma triglyceride levels in hypertriglyceridemic patients, but the increase in LDL cholesterol and apoprotein B levels, and in the LDL cholesterol to HDL cholesterol ratio suggests the need for careful monitoring of plasma lipoprotein changes during fish oil supplementation, and for a careful evaluation of their long-term benefits.
The effects of the low-fat-low-cholesterol diet and lovastatin on lipoprotein levels were independent and additive. However, the reduction in LDL cholesterol produced by the diet was small, and its benefit was possibly offset by the accompanying reduction in the level of HDL cholesterol.
The apo A-IV-2 allele attenuates the hypercholesterolemic response to the short-term ingestion of a very-high-cholesterol diet and may partially account for the heterogeneous response to dietary cholesterol. However, cholesterol intake in this study was more than twice that of the general population; whether the apo A-IV-2 allele alters responsiveness at lower levels of cholesterol intake remains to be determined.
Pravastatin reduced CETP activity, but not that of LCAT. Addition of vitamin E prevented the decrease in CETP activity and had no effect on LCAT activity. The mechanism responsible for these effects is unknown, but could involve the prevention of radical-induced damage to CETP by vitamin E.
Dietary advice is equally effective when given by a dietitian, a practice nurse, or a diet leaflet alone but results in only a small reduction in total and low density lipoprotein cholesterol. To obtain a better response more intensive intervention than is normally available in primary care is probably necessary.
Fish oil concentrate at high doses followed by low-dose maintenance therapy cannot sustain the initial large plasma triglyceride reductions. Moreover, the efficacy of the higher dose becomes less pronounced after the first month of therapy. This reduced efficacy during prolonged therapy, and the lack of beneficial effect on apolipoprotein and LDL cholesterol levels, may limit the practical benefit of fish oil in the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia.
Pubertal onset, gender, lipid levels, vitamin supplementation, and body mass index are significant predictors of fat-soluble vitamin levels in children with FH. Though children following a lipid-lowering diet have normal serum levels of fat-soluble vitamins, the alpha-tocopherol level does not appear to increase proportionately to the increase in cholesterol level. Treatment with resins may restore a normal alpha-tocopherol/lipid ratio.
Following a recommendation to increase fruit and vegetable consumption produces change in plasma concentrations of vitamin C, alpha carotene, and beta carotene likely to reduce incidence of cancer. More specific dietary advice to modify fat intake may be necessary to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease mediated by lipoprotein and vitamin E.
Various soluble fibers reduce total and LDL cholesterol by similar amounts. The effect is small within the practical range of intake. For example, 3 g soluble fiber from oats (3 servings of oatmeal, 28 g each) can decrease total and LDL cholesterol by approximately 0.13 mmol/L. Increasing soluble fiber can make only a small contribution to dietary therapy to lower cholesterol.
Familial hypercholesterolaemia is associated with a substantial excess mortality from coronary heart disease in young adults but may not be associated with a substantial excess mortality in older patients. Criteria for selective measurement of cholesterol concentration in cardiovascular screening programmes identify about three quarters of patients with the clinically overt condition.
Patients with SCD are therefore more satisfied with deferasirox, which has a lower impact on daily activities than deferoxamine. Given the high levels of satisfaction, it is likely that quality of life will be improved. These results also suggest that treatment adherence with deferasirox may be better than with deferoxamine, which should lead to improved long-term outcomes.
In this study, patient-reported satisfaction and convenience were significantly higher for the once-daily, oral ICT deferasirox than for DFO infusions. Among patients who had received DFO before the study, the majority indicated a preference for deferasirox over DFO. Most patients receiving deferasirox indicated that they would be willing to continue taking it. These results suggest that deferasirox had a positive impact on patients' daily lives.
The "pain rate" (episodes per year) is a measure of clinical severity and correlates with early death in patients with sickle cell anemia over the age of 20. Even when the fetal hemoglobin level is low, one can predict that small increments in the level may have an ameliorating effect on the pain rate and may ultimately improve survival. This outcome is particularly encouraging to investigators studying hydroxyurea and other treatments designed to increase the fetal hemoglobin level.
Deferasirox represents a new approach to the management of chronic iron overload in patients with chronic anemias who require blood transfusions. The available literature suggests that deferasirox is safe and as effective as the current standard of therapy at dosages of 20-30 mg/kg/day for beta-thalassemia. Further studies are needed to confirm its efficacy in other chronic transfusion-requiring diseases.
These data show that hemoglobinopathies are a relevant health problem in the population of Germany today. This is not an epidemiological study, and thus it is unknown to what extent these data are representative. Because hemoglobin defects are of widely diverse genetic and clinical types, specialized laboratory analysis is needed to diagnose them correctly and provide a basis for proper therapeutic decisions.
Hydroxyurea reduces hospitalization and increases total and fetal hemoglobin levels in children with severe sickle cell anemia. There was inadequate evidence to assess the efficacy of hydroxyurea in other groups. The small number of children in long-term studies limits conclusions about late toxicities.
IPTc given during the malaria transmission season provided substantial protection against clinical episodes of malaria, malaria infection, and anaemia in children using an LLIN. SP+AQ was safe and well tolerated. These findings indicate that IPTc could make a valuable contribution to malaria control in areas of seasonal malaria transmission alongside other interventions.
We demonstrate how cost-effective IPTc is using three different drug regimens and the possibilities for reducing costs further if the intervention was to be scaled up to the district level. The need for effective training, drug delivery channels and supervision to support a strong network of community based volunteers is emphasised.
The combination AQ+SP was highly efficacious, despite the low efficacy of SP alone; however, we found evidence that AQ may exert selective pressure for resistance associated mutations many weeks after treatment. This study confirms the return of CQ sensitivity in Malawi and importantly, shows no evidence of the re-emergence of pfcrt 76T after treatment with CQ or AQ. Given the safety record of AQ when used as a prophylaxis, our observations of marked falls in neutrophil counts in the AQ+SP group requires further scrutiny.
The intervention was efficacious, producing a reduction in risk for anemia but a smaller effect against malaria. It is a valuable additional tool to control malaria in a highly vulnerable age group. Remaining important questions are currently being addressed in further studies.
IPTi with SP has been shown to moderately reduce the incidence of clinical malaria in Mozambican infants without evidence of rebound after stopping the intervention or of interactions with EPI vaccines. Its recommendation as a malaria control strategy in Mozambique needs to be balanced against the scarcity of affordable control tools and the burden of malaria in children.
These results support the view that IPTi with long-acting regimens provide protection against clinical malaria for up to 8 weeks even in the presence of high ITN coverage, and that the prophylactic rather than the treatment effect of IPTi appears central to its protective efficacy.
IPTc is a safe method of malaria control that has the potential to avert a significant proportion of clinical malaria episodes in areas with markedly seasonal malaria transmission and also appears to have a substantial protective effect against all-cause mortality. These findings indicate that IPTc is a potentially valuable tool that can contribute to the control of malaria in areas with markedly seasonal transmission.
Angiomyolipomas regressed somewhat during sirolimus therapy but tended to increase in volume after the therapy was stopped. Some patients with lymphangioleiomyomatosis had improvement in spirometric measurements and gas trapping that persisted after treatment. Suppression of mTOR signaling might constitute an ameliorative treatment in patients with the tuberous sclerosis complex or sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
The natural history of rhabdomyoma is one of spontaneous regression (the 23 children who did not undergo surgical intervention are alive and continue to be followed up medically). We recommend surgical excision to alleviate acute outflow tract obstruction with reliance on the tumor's natural history of regression to achieve long-term freedom from reoperation. Although operation has been recognized as lifesaving, we were somewhat surprised to find that greater than 20% of our pediatric population required operative intervention.
Intellectual abilities were bi-modally distributed in a representative sample of individuals with TSC. The likelihood of impairment was associated with a history of seizures, particularly infantile spasms. The genetic and brain basis of these findings requires further investigation.
Pulmonary hypertension, diagnosed by Doppler echocardiography, is common in adults with sickle cell disease. It appears to be a complication of chronic hemolysis, is resistant to hydroxyurea therapy, and confers a high risk of death. Therapeutic trials targeting this population of patients are indicated.
Although doxycycline generally provides good protection against malaria infection, it cannot be relied on for causal prophylaxis, even when combined with low dose primaquine. Because the malaria infections occurred only after return to Australia, doxycycline appears to be effective in suppressing malaria while the drug is being taken. Intense, repeated exposure to malaria may require an extended period of chemoprophylaxis on return from an endemic area.
Despite the possibility of a modest reduction in the risk of massive bleeding, the strong and consistent negative mortality trend associated with aprotinin, as compared with the lysine analogues, precludes its use in high-risk cardiac surgery. (Current Controlled Trials number, ISRCTN15166455 [controlled-trials.com].).
OAT patients (INR 2-4) who do not discontinue the AC medication do not have a significantly higher risk of post-operative bleeding than non-OAT patients and they also do not have a higher risk of post-operative bleeding than OAT patients who discontinue the medication. In patients with OAT (INR 2-4) without discontinuation, topical haemostatic agents were effective in preventing post-operative bleeding. OAT discontinuation is not recommended for minor oral surgery, such as single tooth extraction or implant placement, provided that this does not involve autogenous bone grafts, extensive flaps or osteotomy preparations extending outside the bony envelope. Evidence does not support that dental implant placement in patients on OAT is contraindicated.
Hydroxyurea therapy can ameliorate the clinical course of sickle cell anemia in some adults with three or more painful crises per year. Maximal tolerated doses of hydroxyurea may not be necessary to achieve a therapeutic effect. The beneficial effects of hydroxyurea do not become manifest for several months, and its use must be carefully monitored. The long-term safety of hydroxyurea in patients with sickle cell anemia is uncertain.
Adult patients taking hydroxyurea for frequent painful sickle cell episodes appear to have reduced mortality after 9 of years follow-up. Survival was related to HbF levels and frequency of vaso-occlusive events. Whether indications for hydroxyurea treatment should be expanded is unknown.
P. falciparum has reduced in vivo susceptibility to artesunate in western Cambodia as compared with northwestern Thailand. Resistance is characterized by slow parasite clearance in vivo without corresponding reductions on conventional in vitro susceptibility testing. Containment measures are urgently needed. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Reimmunization of children with sickle cell anemia who received pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at age 5 years induces limited production of serotype-specific IgG antibodies, regardless of previous pneumococcal vaccine history. Continued penicillin prophylaxis does not interfere with serotype-specific IgG antibody responses to reimmunization.
S pneumoniae accounts for the vast majority of bacterial pathogens in children with occult bacteremia. As indicated by the results of this study, the heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine may prevent the majority of occult pneumococcal bacteremia episodes. The 2 cases of bacteremia with a serotype that would not have been included in the vaccine both were due to serotype 6A. It has been noted that there is potential nonvaccine serotype and subgroup cross-protection (6A from 6B) afforded to children who are immunized with the heptavalent vaccine. The high potential efficacy of the heptavalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine for strains that cause occult bacteremia in our population may have a profound effect on the treatment of children with fever without a source. There has been an alarming and rapid emergence of antibiotic-resistant pneumococcal strains. Less pressure to use broad-spectrum antibiotics, which in turn causes further antibiotic resistance, should result. Laboratory testing and hospitalization also should be reduced. The prevalence rates determined by this study may be used as baseline data for comparison of serotype rates of occult pneumococcal bacteremia after widespread use of the heptavalent vaccine.
Vaccination with a 9-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine reduced the incidence of radiologically confirmed pneumonia. The vaccine also reduced the incidence of vaccine-serotype and antibiotic-resistant invasive pneumococcal disease among children with and those without HIV infection.
Infants with SCD respond to 7VPnC vaccine with antibody concentrations that are at least as high as infants without SCD. Infants immunized with 7VPnC vaccine at 2, 4, and 6 months of age developed antibody concentrations in the same range as those achieved among infants without SCD enrolled in a large trial that demonstrated vaccine efficacy against invasive disease. Significant rises were seen in antibody concentrations to all 7VPnC serotypes after the PS-23 booster in children receiving schedule A or B.
Young children, elderly persons, and black persons of all ages are disproportionately affected by invasive pneumococcal disease. Current ACIP recommendations do not address a subset of persons aged 18 to 64 years but do include those at highest risk for death from invasive pneumococcal disease.
Although penicillin prophylaxis and pneumococcal vaccine for patients with SCD have reduced overall nasopharyngeal colonization and disease caused by S. pneumoniae (p <0.001), a higher percentage of colonizing strains are now resistant both to penicillin and to other antimicrobial agents (p <0.01). Newer strategies for preventing disease and early management of suspected pneumococcal infection in these children must be developed.
The majority of reports to VAERS in the first 2 years after licensure of PCV described generally minor adverse events previously identified in clinical trials. The proportion of reports portraying serious events was similar to that for other vaccines. Although there are important limitations in passive surveillance data, and caution in their interpretation is necessary, symptoms experienced by a few children more than once after successive PCV doses, including allergic reactions, prolonged or abnormal crying, fussiness, dyspnea, and gastrointestinal distress, warrant continued surveillance, as do reports of rare but potentially serious events, such as seizures, anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reactions, serum sickness, and thrombocytopenia.
Untreated asymptomatic osteonecrosis of the femoral head in patients with sickle cell disease has a high likelihood of progression to pain and collapse. Because of the high prevalence of complications after total hip arthroplasty in patients with this disease, consideration should be given to early surgical intervention with other procedures in an attempt to retard progression of the disease.
The results of the ESCALATOR study in primarily heavily iron-overloaded patients confirm previous observations in patients with beta-thalassaemia, highlighting the importance of timely deferasirox dose adjustments based on serum ferritin levels and transfusional iron intake to ensure patients achieve their therapeutic goal of maintenance or reduction in iron burden.
The distribution maps and bionomics review should both be considered as a starting point in an ongoing process of (i) describing the distributions of these DVS (since the opportunistic sample of occurrence data assembled can be substantially improved) and (ii) documenting their contemporary bionomics (since intervention and control pressures can act to modify behavioural traits). This is the first in a series of three articles describing the distribution of the 41 global DVS worldwide. The remaining two publications will describe those vectors found in (i) Africa, Europe and the Middle East and (ii) in Asia. All geographic distribution maps are being made available in the public domain according to the open access principles of the Malaria Atlas Project.
This article concludes a project aimed to establish the contemporary global distribution of the DVS of malaria. The three articles produced are intended as a detailed reference for scientists continuing research into the aspects of taxonomy, biology and ecology relevant to species-specific vector control. This research is particularly relevant to help unravel the complicated taxonomic status, ecology and epidemiology of the vectors of the Asia-Pacific region. All the occurrence data, predictive maps and EO-shape files generated during the production of these publications will be made available in the public domain. We hope that this will encourage data sharing to improve future iterations of the distribution maps.
The present study shows that low serum magnesium levels in children and adolescents with T1DM are associated with an increased risk of poor glycemic control, potentially contributing to the early development of cardiovascular complications.
In SAD mice, sickle cell hepatopathy is associated with perturbed nuclear factor-κB p65 signaling with an imbalance of endothelial/inducible nitric oxide synthase levels, lack of heme oxygenase-1/biliverdin reductase expression and up-regulation of two novel cytoprotective systems: heat shock protein-27 and peroxiredoxin-6.
A decrease in the duration of painful episodes and an increase in the proportion of patients who achieved resolution of the symptoms were observed when the purified poloxamer 188-treated patients were compared with the patients receiving placebo. However, the difference between these groups was significant but relatively small. In subgroup analysis, a more significant effect on both parameters was observed in children and in patients who were receiving concomitant hydroxyurea. It is important to confirm both of these observations in further prospective trials.
We demonstrated that ITS designs are often analyzed inappropriately, underpowered, and poorly reported in implementation research. We have illustrated a framework for appraising ITS designs, and more widespread adoption of this framework would strengthen reviews that use ITS designs.
A subsidy introduced at the top of the private sector supply chain can significantly increase usage of ACTs and reduce their retail price to the level of common monotherapies. Additional interventions may be needed to ensure access to ACTs in remote areas and for poorer individuals who appear to seek treatment at drug shops less frequently.
These data provide estimates of the rate of inhibitor development in hemophilia A and hemophilia B, and they show that the rate of inhibitor development has varied over time, although the reasons for this remain unclear. They also show that in severe hemophilia the substantial increase in mortality previously associated with inhibitors is no longer present.
Among couples planning to have children, there is generally a positive attitude towards routinely offering population-based CF carrier screening. Preconceptional CF carrier screening appeared feasible, both in terms of practical achievements and target group accessibility. Participation varied according to the pretest education setting, with the primary care setting producing the highest rate of attendance.
Similar to previous studies, no major adverse psychological effects were demonstrated among the Western and non-Western participants in this study, and they would draw reproductive decisions on test-results. No arguments for rejecting a combined offer of preconceptional ancestry-based cystic fibrosis and hemoglobinopathies carrier screening were found. An extensive implementation study should be carried out, in which understanding of test-results needs further attention, to investigate whether or not this type of screening should be implemented on a large scale in the Netherlands.
A category-based ethnicity screening question was more effective than a binary plus open-ended question. Using the more effective question, 5.74% (CI 2.34-11.46%) of significant haemoglobinopathies will be missed in a selective screening programme, and 4.33% (CI 2.63-6.68%) of replies to an ethnicity screening question will be unreliable when compared to information given upon re-interview. In specific carefully circumscribed situations, namely, in antenatal screening for sickle cell and thalassaemia, it is possible to measure the degree of association between social constructs of ethnicity and health status in a manner that may help in effecting policy decisions.
The findings suggest the need for psychological support as well as medical help for thalassemic families. Health professionals need to assess the psychological status of children with thalassemia and that of their families in order to minimize these burdens; thus, nurses must provide psychosocial support for children with thalassemia and encourage other family members to assist in providing support for the affected children.
The practitioners who responded to this survey agreed to a large extent about the importance of the subject, and about the content and effectiveness of PCC. Factors hindering the delivery of this service include resource constraints, lack of training and practice policies and procedures, and difficulty in targeting couples planning conception. Further research is needed into ways to increase the provision and uptake of PCC.
Despite the availability of hospital-based screening and prenatal diagnosis for many years in Hong Kong, many women carrying fetuses at risk for thalassemia are not referred for genetic counseling. A community-based program of education, screening, and counseling is needed in Hong Kong and southern China.
There are cumulative benefits of physical activity across adulthood on physical performance in midlife. Increased activity should be promoted early in adulthood to ensure the maintenance of physical performance in later life.
In the published literature there are no indications that MQ use during pregnancy carries an increased risk for the foetus. Ideally, the use of MQ to prevent malaria should be based on a risk-benefit analysis of adverse effects against the risk of acquiring the infection. For this purpose double-blinded randomized controlled trials in African pregnant women are much needed.
There was a significant increase in dhfr/dhps quintuple mutant and the emergence of new genotype containing dhps 581 in the parasites from pregnant women in western Kenya over 13 years. IPTp adoption and SP use in pregnancy only played a minor role in the increased drug-resistant parasites in the pregnant women over time. Most likely, other major factors, such as the high prevalence of resistant parasites selected by the use of SP for case management in large non-pregnant population, might have contributed to the temporally increased prevalence of SP resistant parasites in pregnant women. Further investigations are needed to determine the linkage between SP drug resistance markers and efficacy of IPTp-SP.
In areas in which 1 of 4 treatments with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine fail in children by day 14, the 2-dose IPT with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine regimen continues to provide substantial benefit to HIV-negative semi-immune pregnant women. However, more frequent dosing is required in HIV-positive women not using cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for opportunistic infections.
Long-term clinical outcomes for children with CRMO appear to be generally good, with most subjects having no evidence of disease activity or sequelae. However, a number of subjects had persistent disease and, therefore, remain at risk of physical and psychologic complications. Further research is required to identify patients at risk for persistent disease, and to determine therapies that may prevent morbidity.
Although the optimal duration of antibiotic therapy remains undefined, most investigators treated patients for about six weeks. Despite three decades of research, the available literature on the treatment of osteomyelitis is inadequate to determine the best agent(s), route, or duration of antibiotic therapy.
Salmonellae are the most common bacterial pathogens of osteomyelitis in major sickling haemoglobinopathies in the USA and Europe whereas Staphylococcus aureus is the most common pathogen in SubSaharan Africa and the Middle East. The worldwide prevalence of salmonella may be reducing while that of S. aureus may be increasing. Possible reasons for this observation are suggested.
For patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria i.m. ARTS is a suitable alternative to i.v. ARTS, at equal doses. To achieve plasma DHA concentrations equivalent to parenteral administration of ARTS, rectal DHA should be given at approximately four-fold higher milligram doses. Further studies are needed to determine whether these recommendations can be applied to patients with severe malaria.
Intermittent treatment with SP did not reduce the proportion of previously anaemic children with moderate or severe anaemia at the end of the malaria season, although it prevented malaria. The combination of appropriate antimalarial treatment plus one month of iron supplementation and good access to healthcare during follow-up proved effective in restoring haemoglobin to an acceptable level in the Gambian setting.
There was no evidence for a clinically relevant modification by the hemoglobin S phenotype of the effects of iron supplementation in the treatment of mild anemia. The benefits of iron supplementation are likely to outweigh possible risks associated with malaria in children with the HbAA or HbAS phenotype.
Reaching the fourth Millenium Development Goal will require the contribution of many health interventions, as well as more general improvements in socio-environmental and nutritional conditions. Distinguishing between the effects of these multiple factors is difficult and represents a major challenge in assessing the effect of routine interventions. However, this study suggests that credible estimates can be obtained when high-quality data on the most important factors are available over a sufficiently long time period.
There are multiple causes of severe anemia in Malawian preschool children, but folate and iron deficiencies are not prominent among them. Even in the presence of malaria parasites, additional or alternative causes of severe anemia should be considered.
The year 2010 has a particular significance as an evaluation milestone for malaria global health policy. The maps presented here contribute to a rational basis for control and elimination decisions and can serve as a baseline assessment as the global health community looks ahead to the next series of milestones targeted at 2015.
Severe anaemia carries a high 'hidden' morbidity and mortality occurring in the months after initial diagnosis and treatment. Because severe anaemia is very common, this is likely to contribute importantly to overall under-five mortality. If not adequately addressed, severe anaemia may be an obstacle to achievement of the Millennium development goal No.4 on child survival. Strategies to diagnose and properly treat HIV infected children early most likely will reduce the high post-discharge mortality in severe anaemia.
Our findings are consistent with the notion that malaria-induced hemolysis is accompanied by increased erythropoiesis. Serum transferrin receptor concentration is not useful for detecting iron deficiency in individuals with malaria. Individuals with high concentrations of serum C-reactive protein or similar acute phase reactants should be excluded from analysis if serum ferritin concentrations <12 microg/L are to be used to measure iron deficiency in malaria-endemic areas.
Longitudinal observations over 20 years in a cohort of patients followed from birth confirms a greater incidence and severity of PSR in SC disease, and shows that spontaneous regression occurred in 32% of PSR-affected eyes. Permanent visual loss was uncommon in subjects observed up to the age of 26 years.
The study concludes that there is a shift in the home management of malaria with the use of current and effective antimalarial drugs. It also demonstrated the effect of health education on the promptness of appropriate actions taken among the respondents for early diagnosis and treatment. Early diagnosis and appropriate treatment can be guaranteed if caregivers are knowledgeable on prompt actions to be taken in the home management of malaria.
The results illustrate that existing private sector networks can efficiently control malaria in remote rural regions. The intra-household allocation of ITNs distributed through this channel was comparable to that of ITNs received from other sources, and the health impact remained substantial.
Household-level incentives have the potential to significantly increase the use of ITNs in target households in the immediate-term, but, over time, the use of ITNs is similar to households that did not receive incentives. Providing incentives for behaviour change is a promising tool that can complement traditional ITN distribution programmes and improve the effectiveness of ITN programmes in protecting vulnerable populations, especially in the short-term.
Results suggest that the life span of nets may be shorter than previously thought, with little maintenance by their owners. With the global move towards malaria elimination it makes sense to aim for sustained high coverage of LLINs. However, in the current economic climate, it also makes sense to hark back to simple tools and messages on the importance of careful net maintenance, which could increase their lifespans.
Household ownership of ITNs and their use by pregnant women is promising with the current efforts to scale-up ITNs implementation, but the gap between ownership and use remains high. Consistent and proper use of nets by pregnant women should be ensured through information campaigns. Rapid expansion of access to long lasting ITNs requires that government and NGOs supply them in adequate numbers.
A much larger infusion of resources than those currently available is needed to make headway in the fight to roll back malaria. On cost effectiveness grounds, in most areas in sub-Saharan Africa greater coverage with highly effective combination treatments should be the cornerstone of malaria control. However, treatment alone can achieve less than half the total benefit obtainable through a combination of interventions-scaling up the use of impregnated mosquito nets or indoor spraying with insecticides is also critical. Intermittent presumptive treatment of pregnant women can bring a small but important additional health gain at relatively low cost.
This paper illustrates the low reporting of ADRs to anti-malarials in general and ACT in particular. Most reports were submitted by non-endemic and/or high-income countries. Given the current mix of large donor funding, the insufficient information on safety of these drugs, increasing availability of ACT and artemisinin-based monotherapies in public and private sector channels, associated potential for inappropriate use and finally a pipeline of more than 10 new novel anti-malarials in various stages of development, the presence of well functioning national pharmacovigilance systems is vital to ensure safe and responsible scale up of ACT deployment. Bringing together the competencies of national pharmacovigilance centres and various types of organizations in the NGO, academic and private sectors with global coordination to create short- and long-term solutions may help address the lag between rapidly growing ACT use and poor ADR reporting.
The potential for continued penicillin prophylaxis to contribute to the development of multiply resistant pneumococci should be considered before continuing penicillin prophylaxis in children with sickle cell anemia who are older than 5 years of age. Added to the published data from PROPS II, which demonstrated no apparent advantage to continue prophylaxis, the data support the conclusion that, for children with no history of invasive pneumococcal disease, consideration should be given to discontinue prophylactic penicillin after their fifth birthday.
There is a high prevalence of NP carriage of PRSP in children with SCD in the Mid-South, which raises concerns regarding the continued effectiveness of penicillin prophylaxis in these children. Further studies on the antimicrobial susceptibilities of resistant organisms and the relationship between NP carriage of SP and invasive disease are needed before developing new recommendations for prophylaxis and treatment.
This study emphasizes the relationship between thrombocytopenia and the severity of clinical findings and PET performance rate in polycythaemic newborn infants, implying that thrombocytopenia is a possible marker of hyperviscosity, the results of which warrant further investigation.
Cytoreduction favorably affects the incidence of thrombotic events, but aggressive treatment seems to be associated with increased risk for neoplasm. These results provide a basis for reevaluating the therapeutic strategy in patients with polycythemia vera and for estimating the size of clinical trials aimed at testing new therapeutic approaches.
We expect that the recent experience on modelling and current better access to and exchange of epidemiological data have paved the way for a more substantial role of this discipline during possible future outbreaks of infectious diseases. By making Chinese modelling initiatives more visible to non-Chinese readers, we hope to attract more international collaborators.
The ICT Pf MRDT is an appropriate test to use in the field in South Africa where laboratory facilities are not available. It has a high degree of sensitivity and acceptable level of specificity in accordance with the World Health Organization criteria. However, sensitivity of MRDT at low levels of parasitaemia (<100 parasites/microl of blood) in field conditions must still be established.
These results concerning malaria (and its epidemiological data) in Mayotte show that the initial use of an Optimal IT test instead of the thin/thick blood smear results in a faster management of patients with malaria, although the Optimal IT test is slightly less sensitive and requires training/practice.
Although microscopy remains the gold standard for malaria diagnosis, Paracheck-Pf may prove a useful adjunctive test in uncomplicated falciparum malaria in southern Vietnam. OptiMAL had the lowest sensitivity for P. falciparum but it might have a use in the diagnosis of vivax malaria and perhaps to monitor efficacy of treatment for falciparum malaria where microscopy is unavailable.
The results of this study show that a rapid differential diagnosis of malaria can be made by performing malaria antigen and antibody tests on febrile patients at hospitals in malaria endemic areas. Moreover, the test is simple and convenient enough to be performed without any special equipment or experience.
While the Newmarket EIA was a generally more specific assay, it was insufficiently sensitive relative to the IFA and the Cellabs EIA for screening purposes for malaria antibodies. The Cellabs EIA demonstrated the best overall sensitivity and is a reasonable choice as a serodiagnostic tool for malaria. It may also be useful as an adjunct to Giemsa-stained smear examination, to aid in cases of low parasitemia in previously nonimmune individuals.
Determine trade mark malaria rapid diagnostic test is easier and quicker to perform and has other advantages over microscopy in not requiring prior training of personnel or quality control. Thus, highlighting the usefulness of a rapid antigen test in assessing prevailing malaria situation in remote areas.
This operational study demonstrates that the US Food and Drug Administration-approved RDT for malaria is superior to a single set of blood smears performed under routine US clinical laboratory conditions. The most valuable clinical role of the RDT is in the rapid diagnosis or the exclusion of P. falciparum malaria, which is particularly useful in outpatient settings when evaluating febrile travelers.
the OptiMAL test has a high sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis of P. vivax malaria. However, its sensitivity decreased when parasitemia levels were lower. It is a very simple technique, which makes it a good alternative for malaria diagnosis in remote places, although its elevated cost is still a problem.
Rapid malaria tests may be a useful diagnostic adjunct to microscopy in centers without major expertise in tropical medicine. Initial decisions on treatment initiation and choice of antimalarial drugs can be based on travel history and post-test probabilities after rapid testing. Expert microscopy is still required for species identification and confirmation.
There was strong intrapatient correlation between serum ferritin levels and volume transfused but wide interpatient variability early during chronic transfusion therapy. Intrapatient correlation declined at transfusion volumes of more than 250 mL/kg. Direct iron store assessment is needed to determine the clinical significance of serum ferritin variability.
The frequency of alpha thalassemia-2 was significantly higher in children with normal TCD. Speculation on mechanisms of effect includes improved erythrocyte deformability, reduced red cell adhesion, and reduced nitric oxide scavenging in alpha thalassemia-2. The association of alpha thalassemia-2 and normal TCD adds to the evidence on the protective effects of alpha thalassemia-2 in SCD and highlights the contribution of epistatic factors.
Transfusion therapy lowers the risk for new silent infarct or stroke for children having both abnormal TCD ultrasonographic velocity and silent infarct. However, those with both abnormalities who are not provided transfusion therapy are at higher risk for developing a new silent infarct or stroke than are those whose initial MRI showed no abnormality. The finding of a silent infarct reinforces the need for TCD ultrasonographic screening and consideration of transfusion therapy if the abnormalities are seen. Similarly, elevated TCD ultrasonographic velocity warrants MRI of the brain because children with both abnormalities seem to be at increased risk for developing new silent infarct or stroke.
Patients in the Stroke Prevention Trial for Sickle Cell Anemia Study who received CTX had improved height and weight and BMI over a 2-year period. Higher hemoglobin levels resulting from transfusion may improve growth by lowering energy expenditure. In addition to the prevention of vasoocclusive events, CTX results in significant improvement in the growth of children with sickle cell disease.
Our program has been successful in reducing the rate of first overt stroke, but with increased use of transfusion. Additional modifications to screening might further reduce the risk of first stroke, and studies of alternative treatments may be beneficial.
The number of individuals with SCD in the U.S. may approach 100,000, even when accounting for the effect of early mortality on estimations. A paucity of high-quality data limits appropriate estimation. State-to-state variability may preclude application of state-specific information to other states or to the nation as a whole. Standardized collection and centralized reporting, a surveillance system, will be necessary to assess the size and composition of the U.S. SCD population.
The cost-utility analysis did not take drug compliance into account. However, Deferasirox is cost-effective compared to standard iron chelation therapy with desferrioxamine, due to the cost and quality of life benefits derived from a simpler and more convenient oral mode of administration.
HU-treated patients experienced statistically significant decreases in TCDi velocities compared to age-matched controls. Changes in hematologic parameters were not predictive of changes in TCDi velocities in the treated group. The decrease in TCDi velocities is not a consequence of changes in hematologic values in patients treated with HU.
We conclude that maintenance of hemoglobin S at a level less than 30% appears to be effective in reducing the rate of recurrent infarction but does not prevent transient neurologic events. Transient neurologic events are common but do not appear to be related to recurrent stroke.
Neurotoxic effects of prenatal PCB and dioxin exposure may persist into school age, resulting in subtle cognitive and motor developmental delays. More optimal intellectual stimulation provided by a more advantageous parental and home environment may counteract these effects of prenatal exposure to PCBs and dioxins on cognitive and motor abilities.
We conclude that transfusion induces rapid changes in cerebral hemodynamics that are related to pretransfusion velocities and a rise in hematocrit. Transcranial Doppler provides a safe, simple, and noninvasive technique of monitoring these changes and may provide a means of making therapeutic decisions regarding transfusion therapy in patients with sickle cell anemia.
Statistically, non-inferiority could not be demonstrated as the confidence interval crossed the non-inferiority boundary. Nevertheless, with only a small difference in physical fatigue and no differences in secondary outcomes, implementation of restrictive management seems clinically justified.
  In all the VHP pdFVIII (Factane® ) batches studied, regardless of the level of VWF, the structure and capacity of VWF binding to FVIII and to platelet GPIb were fully preserved.
We recommend flat administration of iron to all women after spontaneous delivery. Postpartum substitution with iron should last at least three months because of long-lasting sideropenia. Adding folic acid to iron does not have any significant impact during the postpartum period.
Intravenous iron therapy is effective in increasing haemoglobin concentration and reducing the risk of allogeneic red blood cell transfusion and could have broad applicability to a range of acute care settings. This potential benefit is counterbalanced by a potential increased risk of infection.
In all patients with severe hemorrhage and subsequent hypovolemic shock, the most important therapy is intravascular volume resuscitation, to reduce the possibility of target organ damage and death. Similarly, the current proposals of transfusion therapy in severe or massive hemorrhage point to early transfusion of blood products and use of fresh frozen plasma, in addition to packed red blood cells, to prevent maternal deaths.
The review highlights evidence gaps including the management of anaemia in the postnatal period, screening for anaemia, and optimal interventions for treatment. Research priorities include developing standardised approaches to reporting of laboratory outcomes, and information on clinical outcomes relevant to the experiences of pregnant women.
GHQ-12 and SCL-90-R appeared to be useful tools for identifying mental disorders in primary care practice and research. The use of GHQ-12 or SCL-90-R, employed as a first step, supplemented by a second-stage interview, may enhance the detection rate of mental disorder in primary care settings.
Acute isovolemic reduction of blood Hb concentration to 50 g/L in conscious healthy resting humans does not produce evidence of inadequate systemic TO2, as assessed by lack of change of VO2 and plasma lactate concentration. Analysis of Holter readings suggests that at this Hb concentration in this resting healthy population, myocardial ischemia would occur infrequently.
Elderly patients with hemophilia have more co-morbidities and problems in daily living, but similar cognitive status as age-matched non-hemophilic peers. They have more chronic viral infections and hypertension but fewer cardiovascular diseases. These observations should help to optimize health care delivery in this increasing and neglected population of people with hemophilia.
Effective interventions will result in rapid decreases in clinical disease across all transmission settings while population-level immunity is maintained but may subsequently result in increases in clinical disease many years later as population-level immunity is lost. A dynamic, evolving intervention programme will therefore be necessary to secure substantial, stable reductions in malaria transmission.
Enzyme replacement therapy is available for the treatment of type 1 Gaucher's disease, resulting in clinical improvement with enhanced quality of life within the first year of treatment, although improvement in bone disease can take longer. Doses of 60 units/kg every 2 weeks are of clinical benefit to patients with moderate to severe disease. A number of lower dosage regimens have been evaluated in small groups of patients, with satisfactory clinical responses occurring in some of these patients.
In HIV-positive pregnant women, monthly SP IPTp is more efficacious than a 2-dose regimen in preventing placental malaria. The study also demonstrates the continued efficacy of SP for the prevention of placental malaria, even in the face of its decreasing efficacy for the treatment of malaria in children. In areas with intense transmission of falciparum malaria and a high prevalence of HIV infection, monthly SP IPTp should be adopted.
In an area of mesoendemicity in Zambia, monthly SP IPTp was not more efficacious than the standard 2-dose regimen for the prevention of placental malaria or adverse birth outcomes. IPTp policy recommendations need to take into account local malaria transmission patterns and the prevalence of HIV.
In 2007, 54.7 million pregnancies occurred in areas with stable P. falciparum malaria and a further 70.5 million in areas with exceptionally low malaria transmission or with P. vivax only. These represent the first contemporary estimates of the global distribution of the number of pregnancies at risk of P. falciparum and P. vivax malaria and provide a first step towards a more informed estimate of the geographical distribution of infection rates and the corresponding disease burden of malaria in pregnancy.
The optimum dose regimen for artemotil in this study was identical to the standard dose regimen of artemether. The findings that artemotil is more slowly absorbed from the i.m. injection site than artemether, and that early systemic availability may be insufficient for an immediate onset of parasite clearance contributed to the decision to choose a higher loading dose of artemotil (divided over two injection sites) and to omit the fifth dose in later studies. With this optimized dosing schedule, the more pronounced depot characteristics of i.m. artemotil can be an advantage, since it may allow shorter hospitalization.
Eculizumab controls effectively hemolysis and greatly improves clinical symptoms. The drug is safe and well tolerated, without significant adverse effects except meningococcal infection. Patients with suboptimal response to treatment must be assessed for bone marrow insufficiency and extravascular haemolysis.
These data demonstrate a previously masked mechanism of red cell clearance in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria and suggests that blockade of complement at C5 allows C3 fragment accumulation on some paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria red cells, explaining the residual low-level hemolysis occurring in some eculizumab-treated patients.
Eculizumab is safe and well tolerated in patients with PNH. This antibody against terminal complement protein C5 reduces intravascular hemolysis, hemoglobinuria, and the need for transfusion, with an associated improvement in the quality of life in patients with PNH.
This study shows that despite a higher frequency of additional SVT, short-term prognosis of BCS patients with PNH does not differ from BCS patients without PNH. Treatment with TIPS can be safely performed in patients with PNH. Stem cell transplantation appears to be a feasible treatment option for PNH in BCS patients.
1) The incidence of PNH is very low in our experience, excessive delay in diagnosis being the rule, as in other reported series. 2) Early anti-thrombotic treatment should be carried out in PNH whenever severe thrombocytopenia is not associated. 3) Allogeneic BMT is the only curative treatment.
Resolution of parasitemia was inadequate with monotherapy with either azithromycin or chloroquine, but combination therapy provided substantially improved clinical and parasitologic outcomes. The combination of azithromycin and chloroquine may be an effective alternative treatment for falciparum malaria and deserves further study.
These data suggest that azithromycin-artesunate, even when given only once daily for 3 days, and azithromycin-quinine, given 3 times daily, are safe and efficacious combination treatments for uncomplicated falciparum malaria, and they deserve additional study in special patient populations.
CONSORT for Abstracts aims to improve reporting of abstracts of RCTs published in journal articles and conference proceedings. It will help authors of abstracts of these trials provide the detail and clarity needed by readers wishing to assess a trial's validity and the applicability of its results.
Parasitological failure rates were significantly lower in asymptomatic pregnant women, particularly in multigravidae, compared with symptomatic children. Reliance on drug sensitivity results observed in children only to decide on antimalarial regimes for pregnant women may not be appropriate.
Brain MR imaging showed infarction/ischemia in the absence of a recognized cerebrovascular accident in 13% of patients. The prevalence of these lesions did not increase significantly between the ages of 6 and 14 years, suggesting that lesions are present by age 6. However, the increase in the average number of lesions per patient with age may indicate progressive brain injury.
In this pilot trial, hydroxyurea treatment of severe SCD in children was associated with improved hematologic parameters, acceptable toxic effects, and a trend to reduced hospitalization. Hydroxyurea appears to be a safe and potentially effective agent for the treatment of severe SCD in children. A prospective, controlled trial to investigate the efficacy of hydroxyurea in children is therefore warranted.
A chronic condition such as homozygous sickle cell disease might have been expected to cause symmetric growth retardation throughout pregnancy. The finding of asymmetric retardation might indicate adverse factors emerging late in pregnancy and might have relevance for the poor pregnancy outcomes in such mothers.
In the RCT of mild to moderate cardiac iron loading, combination treatment improved RV function significantly more than deferoxamine alone. Combination treatment also improved RV function in severe cardiac siderosis. Therefore adding deferiprone to deferoxamine has beneficial effects on both RV and LV function in TM patients with cardiac siderosis.
DMT1, LTCC, and TTCC played important roles for iron entry in the thalassemic heart under an iron-overloaded condition. Unlike LTCC blocker, TTCC blocker provided all benefits including attenuating iron deposit in both the heart and liver, reduced oxidative stress, and decreased mortality in iron-overloaded mice.
Iron-overload cardiomyopathy is a an important and potentially reversible cause of heart failure at an international scale and involves diastolic dysfunction, increased susceptibility to arrhythmias and a late-stage dilated cardiomyopathy. The early diagnosis of iron-overload cardiomyopathy is critical since the cardiac dysfunction is reversible if effective therapy is introduced before the onset of overt heart failure.
Nifedipine markedly increased MSA, but not SSA, independently of drug release formulation. In contrast, HR increased with short-acting, but not with slow-release, nifedipine. Therefore, nifedipine activates cardiac and peripheral sympathetic nerves differently depending on pharmacokinetics. These effects of nifedipine may be disadvantageous in cardiac patients with increased sympathetic activity or congestive heart failure, or both.
Potential statin-drug interactions are common. Although they do not differ between outpatient and inpatient settings, new hazardous coprescriptions are more frequently generated in hospital. Caution is required when acenocoumarol is coprescribed with statins, especially simvastatin.
Targeted screening of African American newborns for SCD compared with no screening is always cost-effective. Universal screening compared with targeted screening always identifies more infants with disease, prevents more deaths, and is cost-effective given certain delivery rates for targeted screening and proportions of African Americans in the population.
SIMON® was feasible and improved hematologic parameters in children with SCA receiving hydroxyurea at a MTD. Future work will include extension of this technology to children with other chronic medical conditions who require daily use of medication.
Steady state LDH measurements can identify a chronic hyper-hemolysis phenotype which includes less frequent vasooclusive pain and earlier mortality. Clinicians should consider sickle cell specific therapies for these patients, as is done for those with more frequent acute pain. The findings also suggest that an important class of disease modifiers in sickle cell anemia affect the rate of hemolysis.
This paper provides an overview of practices employed in neonatal screening and clinical care programmes for sickle cell disease in sub-Saharan African countries. The development of these programmes is pivotal to improving the health care of those affected by haemoglobin disorders. However, such programmes require major economic and organizational resources, which must taken into account and balanced against other local health priorities.
These data suggest that an ideal therapeutic regime has yet to be found which avoids the toxic effect of iron overload and on the other hand avoids interference with growth, secondary to desferrioxamine. Therefore we recommend that the growth of thalassaemia patients be monitored routinely at every follow-up visit and documented on growth velocity charts in order to detect early changes in their growth pattern and to establish an appropriate protocol for investigation and treatment.
Intravenous DFO therapy during BMT does not seem to have affected the engraftment parameters or the incidence of infections or GVHD. No adverse effects were observed during the therapy. Therefore thalassemic patients with heavy iron overload can be candidates for a course of i.v. chelation during the transplant period. This therapy could also be followed by post-BMT iron removal (i.e. phlebotomies or desferrioxamine) to accelerate the clearance of body iron deposits.
Oral deferiprone induces sustained decreases in body iron to concentrations compatible with the avoidance of complications from iron overload. The risk of agranulocytosis associated with deferiprone may restrict its administration to patients who are unable or unwilling to use deferoxamine.
The largest reduction of blood transfusions can be achieved in children aged under 5 years, especially in infants aged less than 1 year. Following this study, blood transfusion prescribers drew up provisional guidelines on blood transfusions, which have been introduced in all hospitals in Mwanza Region. An evaluation study has been carried out and is being analysed.
The rate of nonjustifiable or equivocal transfusion on medical services may be as high as 35%. Reliance on numbers rather than clinical status seems to be a major problem. Education is obviously a critical issue and should also target private practitioners, who seemed to perform less well than physicians in training. Transfusion guidelines that use specific hematocrit values also need to be reexamined.
Although rare, pregnancy-associated AHA may cause severe bleeding-related morbidity. Once diagnosed, women respond well to haemostatic treatment with bypassing agents and immunosuppression. Awareness of peripartum AHA requires improvement to facilitate rapid and appropriate management.
The incidence of inhibitors in our MHA population was 7.4%. If expressed according to exposure the incidence was significantly higher: 14% (4/29) for any exposure to FVIII and 57% (4/7) for exposure by CI. A prospective study to address whether CI is associated with an increased incidence of inhibitor development in MHA is warranted.
The risk of acute chest syndrome is significantly associated with high systemic exposure to morphine and its active metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide after oral administration of slow-release morphine. Morphine may facilitate respiratory deterioration by eliciting a decrease in oxygen saturation, by inducing histamine release, or through an as-yet-unidentified mechanism. The safe systemic exposure to morphine in terms of area under the concentration-time curve should be further studied in children with sickle cell disease.
Central venous access procedures can be done safely in patients with disorders of hemostasis by skilled physicians who frequently perform these procedures. Patients most likely to experience bleeding from these procedures are patients with severe thrombocytopenia. In this series, only a single patient, with a platelet count of 6,000/mL, required therapeutic blood product administration.
Chronic liver disease and more abnormal coagulation tests were associated with greater probability of pre-procedural FFP administration before vascular catheterization, whereas the severity of prothrombin time prolongation alone was not. FFP was more likely to be administered when red cells were also transfused, even in the absence of bleeding.
This study raises important questions about the clinical benefit of much of current FFP usage. It highlights the pressing need for better studies to inform and evaluate quantitative data for the effect of plasma on standard coagulation tests.
Prothrombin time prolongation is prevalent in critically ill patients and is independently associated with greater intensive care unit mortality. Wide variation in fresh-frozen plasma treatment exists suggesting clinical uncertainty regarding best practice, particularly as a prophylactic treatment.
In patients who survive their initial injury, FFP was independently associated with a greater risk of developing MOF and ARDS, whereas CRYO was associated with a lower risk of MOF. Further investigation into the mechanisms by which these plasma-rich component transfusions are associated with these effects are required.
These data support a novel mechanism of disease in which hemolysis contributes to reduced nitric oxide bioavailability and endothelial dysfunction via release of erythrocyte arginase, which limits arginine bioavailability, and release of erythrocyte hemoglobin, which scavenges nitric oxide. The ratios of arginine to ornithine and arginine to ornithine plus citrulline are independently associated with pulmonary hypertension and increased mortality in patients with sickle cell disease.
Since publication of the WHO/ISH Guidelines for the Management of Hypertension in 1999, more evidence has become available to support a systolic blood pressure threshold of 140 mmHg for even 'low-risk' patients. In high-risk patients there is evidence for lower thresholds. Lifestyle modification is recommended for all individuals. There is evidence that specific agents have benefits for patients with particular compelling indications, and that monotherapy is inadequate for the majority of patients. For patients without a compelling indication for a particular drug class, on the basis of comparative trial data, availability, and cost, a low dose of diuretic should be considered for initiation of therapy. In most places a thiazide diuretic is the cheapest option and thus most cost effective, but for compelling indications where other classes provide additional benefits, even if more expensive, they may be more cost effective. In high-risk patients who attain large benefits from treatment, expensive drugs may be cost effective, but in low-risk patients treatment may not be cost-effective unless the drugs are cheap.
Recombinant and plasma-derived factor VIII products conferred similar risks of inhibitor development, and the content of von Willebrand factor in the products and switching among products were not associated with the risk of inhibitor development. Second-generation full-length recombinant products were associated with an increased risk, as compared with third-generation products. (Funded by Bayer Healthcare and Baxter BioScience.).
The use of the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form in this phase 2 trial helped characterize the symptomatic improvements observed with use of INCB018424 in MF patients. In an era of many targeted therapies undergoing testing for MF with potential symptomatic benefit, the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form may provide a useful tool for objective symptomatic assessment and potentially allow some nonrandomized comparison between therapeutic agents.
Ruxolitinib, as compared with placebo, provided significant clinical benefits in patients with myelofibrosis by reducing spleen size, ameliorating debilitating myelofibrosis-related symptoms, and improving overall survival. These benefits came at the cost of more frequent anemia and thrombocytopenia in the early part of the treatment period. (Funded by Incyte; COMFORT-I ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Continuous ruxolitinib therapy, as compared with the best available therapy, was associated with marked and durable reductions in splenomegaly and disease-related symptoms, improvements in role functioning and quality of life, and modest toxic effects. An influence on overall survival has not yet been shown. (Funded by Novartis Pharmaceuticals; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Most meta-analyses with nominally significant results pertain to truly nonnull effects, but exceptions are not uncommon. The magnitude of observed effects, especially in meta-analyses with limited evidence, is often inflated.
Two-dose SP was associated with a reduction in some indicators, but these were not translated to significant improvement in other maternal or birth outcomes. The use of ITNs during pregnancy may reduce the need to administer IPTp. ITNs should be part of the ANC package in sub-Saharan Africa.
Malaria prevention with SP in pregnancy can reduce neonatal mortality. Mechanisms associated with increased malaria infection at the end of pregnancy may explain the excess mortality in the malaria less protected group. Alternatively, SP may have reduced the risk of neonatal infections. These findings are of relevance to promote the implementation of IPTp with SP, and provide insights into the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms through which maternal malaria affects fetal and neonatal health.
In Mali, IPT with SP appears more efficacious than weekly chloroquine chemoprophylaxis in preventing malaria during pregnancy. These data support World Health Organization recommendations to administer at least 2 doses of IPT during pregnancy. In intensely seasonal transmission settings in Mali, >2 doses may be required to prevent placental reinfection prior to delivery.
An IPTp regimen with monthly SP given to all pregnant women is likely to increase mean birthweight and length at four weeks of age in malaria holoendemic areas. Adding azithromycin to the regimen appears to offer further benefits in reducing foetal and neonatal growth faltering.
Our results suggest that increasing the frequency of SP administration during pregnancy improves the efficacy against malaria at delivery among HIV-negative women, as well as a population consisting of both HIV-positive and -negative pregnant women of all gravidities, in a setting of relatively low but holoendemic malaria transmission, frequent use of bed nets and high SP resistance.
IPTp with SP increases the prevalence of resistance markers in the placenta and in HIV-infected women at delivery, which suggests that host immunity is key for the clearance of drug-resistant infections. However, this effect of IPTp is limited to the period when blood levels of SP are likely to be significant and does not translate into more-severe infections or adverse clinical outcomes.
The IPTp-associated reduction in antibodies in HIV-infected women, but not in HIV-uninfected women, may reflect a higher efficacy of the intervention in preventing malaria among HIV-positive mothers. This reduction did not translate into an enhanced risk of malaria-associated morbidity in mothers and infants. Trial registration. Clinicaltrials.gov identifier 
Although randomized trials have demonstrated the efficacy of SP, studies evaluating scale-up programs found less consistent reductions in LBW and maternal anemia. Additional strategies to improve SP coverage may reduce the LBW and maternal anemia associated with malaria in pregnancy.
Involved-field radiotherapy did not improve the outcome in patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin's lymphoma who had a complete remission after MOPP-ABV chemotherapy. Radiotherapy may benefit patients with a partial response after chemotherapy.
No statistically significant differences in treatment efficacy were detected between 20 Gy IF radiotherapy and 1X (COPP + ABVD) chemotherapy following CR after six cycles of alternating chemotherapy in patients with advanced-stage HD. However, limited observations in a non-randomized cohort indicate that patients without consolidation treatment of CR after 6 cycles of chemotherapy may have an elevated risk of relapse.
Low-dose involved field radiation after MOP-BAP chemotherapy in patients with stage III or IV Hodgkin disease did not prolong remission duration or overall survival in randomized patients. However, remission duration was prolonged in several subgroups of patients, most prominently in those with nodular sclerosis histology.
The prognostic score we developed may be useful in designing clinical trials for the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease and in making individual therapeutic decisions, but a distinct group of patients at very high risk could not be identified on the basis of routinely documented demographic and clinical characteristics.
Weekly iron tablets given by teachers prevented a general fall in the haemoglobin concentrations of untreated children, and led to a small but statistically significant rise among treated children. Young children benefited more than children aged >or=12 years, and girls benefited more than boys.
Zinc alone or in combination with iron has not shown a significant improvement in growth in adolescence. Severe and moderate forms of anaemia were successfully treated in children who received iron supplementation. Initial high prevalence of low SZn and iron stores was significantly improved with micronutrient supplementation.
Weekly iron supplementation results in substantial increases in hemoglobin concentration in adolescent schoolgirls in western Kenya, which may outweigh possible risks caused by malaria, but only in iron-deficient or menstruating girls and not in iron-replete and nonmenstruating girls.
Single supplementation with zinc significantly improved growth, and single supplementation with iron significantly improved growth and psychomotor development, but combined supplementation with iron and zinc had no significant effect on growth or development. Combined, simultaneous supplementation with iron and zinc to infants cannot be routinely recommended at the iron-to-zinc ratio used in this study.
Iron supplementation improved motor and language development of preschool children in rural Africa. The effects of iron on motor development were limited to children with more severe anaemia (baseline haemoglobin concentration <90 g/l). Mebendazole had a positive effect on motor and language development, but this was not statistically significant.
In the whole study population, the rich micronutrient fortification did not reduce stunting or hospital referral but did improve iron status and reduce anemia. Importantly, in the infants of HIV-infected mothers who stopped breastfeeding before 6 months, the rich fortification improved linear growth. Provision of such fortified foods may benefit health of these high risk infants.
Lower mental test scores persisted in infants with iron-deficiency anemia despite extended oral iron therapy and an excellent hematologic response. Iron-deficiency anemia may serve as a marker for a variety of nutritional and family disadvantages that may adversely affect infant development.
The results suggest that unsupplemented infants responded less positively to the physical and social environment. The observed differences seem to be congruent with current understanding of the effects of iron deficiency on the developing brain. The study shows that healthy full-term infants may receive developmental and behavioral benefits from iron supplementation in the first year of life.
Anemic African children carry an unfavorable ratio of fecal enterobacteria to bifidobacteria and lactobacilli, which is increased by iron fortification. Thus, iron fortification in this population produces a potentially more pathogenic gut microbiota profile, and this profile is associated with increased gut inflammation. This trial was registered at controlled-trials.com as ISRCTN21782274.
Supplementation of micronutrients along with iron and folic acid mitigates the excess morbidity of iron-folate alone, without reducing its efficacy in correcting anemia and building iron stores. FoodLETs are a suitable vehicle to provide micronutrient supplementation to infants.
Considering compliance, feasibility and cost-factors, a public-health approach consisting of once-weekly distribution of iron/folate supplementation through schools and welfare centers is better and can be recommended as an appropriate strategy for combating anemia in adolescent girls of poor communities in developing countries like India.
Short-term iron supplementation did not change developmental test scores despite the hematologic response in iron-sufficient healthy infants. The high prevelance of iron-deficiency anemia and its relationship with adverse developmental outcome suggests that prevention of iron-deficiency anemia with prophylaxis needs to be emphasized, rather than treatment.
The most severe consequences of P. falciparum malaria were concentrated in the youngest age groups across all settings. Despite recently observed declines in malaria transmission in several countries, which will shift the burden of malaria cases towards older children, it is still appropriate to target strategies for preventing malaria mortality and severe morbidity at very young children who will continue to bear the brunt of malaria deaths in sub-Saharan Africa.
This systematic review indicates that iron supplementation increases Hb levels in children significantly but modestly. The increase is greater in subjects who are anaemic at the start of the trial and lower in malarial hyperendemic areas and in those consuming iron-fortified food. The projected reductions in prevalence of anaemia with iron supplementation alone highlight the need for additional area-specific interventions, particularly in malaria-prone regions.
Iron supplementation improves mental development score modestly. This effect is particularly apparent for intelligence tests above 7 years of age and in initially anaemic or iron-deficient anaemic subjects. There is no convincing evidence that iron treatment has an effect on mental development in children below 27 months of age or on motor development.
DHP was more effective and better tolerated than AAQ against multidrug-resistant P. falciparum and P. vivax infections. The prolonged therapeutic effect of piperaquine delayed the time to P. falciparum reinfection, decreased the rate of recurrence of P. vivax infection, and reduced the risk of P. vivax gametocyte carriage and anemia.
DHA-PQP was as efficacious as MAS3, but much better tolerated, making it more appropriate for use in a routine programme setting. This highly efficacious, safe and more affordable fixed-dose combination could become the treatment of choice for Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Cambodia.
The most effective regimens were artemether-lumefantrine against P. falciparum and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine against P. vivax. The relatively high rate of treatment failure with dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine against P. falciparum may reflect cross-resistance between chloroquine and piperaquine. (Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number, ACTRN12605000550606.)
Our study confirms the high prevalence of albuminuria in SCD. The association of urine albumin excretion with sFLT-1 suggests that this vascular endothelial growth factor receptor family member may contribute to the development of albuminuria in SCD. By inducing endothelial activation and endothelial dysfunction, sFLT-1 appears to be a link between glomerulopathy and PHT in SCD.
Even with a carefully controlled newborn screening program, the probability of SS children dying was still found to be high. Causes not identified on death certificates may indicate difficulties recognizing SCD and its complications. Educational campaigns directed at health professionals and SCD patients' families should be boosted in order to decrease SCD mortality.
The pre-azotemic manifestations of hypertension, proteinuria, and increasingly severe anemia predict end-stage renal failure in patients with sickle cell disease. The rate of progression of renal insufficiency is genetically determined. Treatment of the uremic phase has been dismal, underscoring the need for the development of useful pre-azotemic therapeutic modalities.
Quantitative GFR measurement is feasible but variable among infants with SCA. Schwartz GFR estimates are not highly correlated with quantitative DTPA GFR values. Baseline GFR measurements suggest that renal dysfunction in SCA, evidenced by glomerular hyperfiltration, begins during infancy.
Available rectal preparations of artemisinin derivatives differ in their pharmacokinetic disposition. Most available evidence pertains to artesunate and artemisinin. Despite marked interindividual variability in bioavailability, rectal preparations appear to have acceptable therapeutic efficacy, including in severe illness.
This study found that sickle cell anemia is associated with the prevalence of previous mental nerve neuropathy and delayed tooth eruption. Moreover, previous mental nerve neuropathy is more frequent among females with sickle cell anemia, and previous mandibular pain is more frequent among individuals older than 21 years of age with sickle cell anemia. Further studies using a methodology similar to the one in this study are necessary considering the scarcity of studies using this approach.
Our data show significant improvement of endothelial dysfunction towards normal levels after short-term simvastatin therapy in children with FH. These results emphasize the relevance of statin therapy in patients with FH at an early stage, when the atherosclerotic process is still reversible.
Simvastatin significantly reduced LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglyceride, VLDL cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B levels and was well tolerated in children with heFH. There was no evidence of any adverse effect of simvastatin on growth and pubertal development. Therefore, simvastatin at doses up to 40 mg is a well-tolerated and effective therapy for heFH children.
This study in adolescent boys with HeFH confirmed the LDL-C-reducing effectiveness of lovastatin. Comprehensive clinical and biochemical data on growth, hormonal, and nutritional status indicated no significant differences between lovastatin and placebo over 48 weeks, although further study is required.
The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile of pravastatin in children is similar to that reported for adults. In the short term, the daily dose of 10 mg pravastatin was well tolerated and moderately effective in decreasing the serum cholesterol concentration. However, further studies are needed on the long-term safety and efficacy of pravastatin in children.
The higher CHD risk in patients carrying PCSK9 p.Y347 or a detected LDLR mutation supports the usefulness of DNA testing in the diagnosis and management of patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia. Mutations in PCSK9 appear uncommon in patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia in UK.
In FH children, we found that the null allele genotype was associated with a greater carotid IMT, higher LDL cholesterol levels, and a nonsignificant tendency to attenuated LDL cholesterol lowering compared with receptor-defective mutations. Null alleles identify FH patients at the highest cardiovascular disease risk who may benefit from more aggressive treatment started in childhood.
CQ is no longer appropriate by itself or in combination. These findings influenced the replacement of CQ with SP+AS for first-line treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region. The threat of SP resistance remains as SP monotherapy is still common. Three day AS was superior to single-dose PQ for reducing gametocyte carriage.
These findings confirm previous estimates of the circulation time of gametocytes, but indicate a much longer duration of (low density) gametocyte carriage after apparently successful clearance of asexual parasites. ACT shortened the period of gametocyte carriage considerably, and had the most pronounced effect on mature gametocytes when combined with PQ.
PQ clears submicroscopic gametocytes after treatment with SP+AS and the persisting gametocytes circulated at densities that are unlikely to contribute to malaria transmission. For individuals without severe anaemia, addition of a single dose of PQ to an efficacious antimalarial drug combination is a safe approach to reduce malaria transmission following treatment.
G6PD deficiency is common in African patients with malaria and until a reliable and simple G6PD test is available, the use of 8-aminoquinolines will remain problematic. G6PD status did not impact baseline haemoglobin, parasitaemia or temperature or the outcomes of anti-malarial therapy.
This study illustrates the possibility to achieve high coverage with a three-day intervention but also the difficulty in defining suitable outcome measures to evaluate interventions in areas of very low malaria transmission intensity. The decline in transmission intensity prior to the intervention made it impossible to assess the impact of MDA in the chosen study setting.
An increased duration and density of gametocyte carriage after sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment was an early indicator of drug resistance. This increased gametocytemia among patients who have primary infections with drug-resistant Plasmodium falciparum fuels the spread of resistance even before treatment failure rates increase significantly.
Despite a higher efficiency of direct skin feeding assays, membrane feeding assays appear suitable tools to compare the infectiousness between individuals and to evaluate transmission-reducing interventions. Several aspects of membrane feeding procedures currently lack standardization; this variability makes comparisons between laboratories challenging and should be addressed to facilitate future testing of transmission-reducing interventions.
Our results suggest that ACTs have the potential for transmission reductions approaching those achieved by insecticide-treated nets in lower-transmission settings. ACT partner drugs and nonartemisinin regimens with longer prophylactic times could result in a larger impact in higher-transmission settings, although their long term benefit must be evaluated in relation to the risk of development of parasite resistance.
Peripheral-vein infusion of scAAV2/8-LP1-hFIXco resulted in FIX transgene expression at levels sufficient to improve the bleeding phenotype, with few side effects. Although immune-mediated clearance of AAV-transduced hepatocytes remains a concern, this process may be controlled with a short course of glucocorticoids without loss of transgene expression. (Funded by the Medical Research Council and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Dry and wet cough in children, as determined by clinicians and parents has good clinical validity. Clinicians should however be cognisant that children with dry cough may have minimal to mild airway secretions. Brassy cough determined by respiratory physicians is highly specific for tracheomalacia.
The adult-based anatomic pathway, which involves the investigation and treatment of patients with asthma, GERD, and UACS first is largely unsuitable for use in the management of chronic cough in young children as the common etiologies of chronic cough in children are different from those in adults.
Chronic cough in children is associated with a high burden of recurrent doctor visits, parental stress, and worries that resolve when cough ceases. Parents of children with chronic cough did not have above-average anxiety or depression levels. This study highlights the need to improve the management of children with chronic cough, including clinicians being cognizant of the emotional distress of the parents.
We conclude that for thalassemia major and sickle cell disease, allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from HLA-geno-identical siblings offers a high probability of complication-free survival. Despite good results, morbidity and mortality associated with transplantation from unrelated donors is a risk that might be considered, in contrast to a non-curative medical treatment that offers a long term survival. For thalassemia major groups it could be an option, but not for sickle cell disease, which is still in the investigational phase.
GER did not have a significant impact on caloric intake, effective use of calories, or growth velocities in the study population. It is more likely that the constant monitoring of weight gain and caloric intake while in the intensive care environment protects against the failure to thrive often seen in older infants with GER. Premature infants with GER had a significantly increased length of hospital stay. More aggressive medical management and consideration of alternative feeding strategies may help facilitate discharge for premature infants diagnosed with GER.
Storage of human milk is safe at 15 degrees C for 24 hours, whereas at 25 degrees C it is safe for 4 hours. Milk should not be stored at 38 degrees C. Minimal proteolysis during storage suggests that milk proteins probably maintain their structure and function during short-term storage, while the marked lipolysis might slow bacterial growth during this time.
Continuous enteral feeding leads to an enlarged, noncontractile gallbladder in infants. Emptying is observed immediately after bolus feeds are resumed, and volume returns to baseline after 4 days. The mode of feeding has important bearings on the motility of the extrahepatic biliary tree.
Rebamipide is well tolerated and improves the aphthae count and pain score in BD patients. It may therefore be useful in the treatment and prevention of frequently recurrent oral aphthous ulcers (not restricted to BD). Administration of rebamipide is not cumbersome, and it does not cause any discomfort, which corticosteroid ointments for example may do; furthermore, there are no specific adverse drug reactions. Rebamipide is therefore recommended as a long-term treatment for recurrent oral aphthous ulcers.
Primary negative symptoms significantly contribute to the functional impairment seen in people with schizophrenia. A better understanding of the etiology and pathobiology of these symptoms is required to guide the search for effective therapeutics that promote functional recovery.
The magnitude of benefit of antidepressant medication compared with placebo increases with severity of depression symptoms and may be minimal or nonexistent, on average, in patients with mild or moderate symptoms. For patients with very severe depression, the benefit of medications over placebo is substantial.
Our results based on most recent data confirm results from previous reviews with adults. Surveys in children offer most recent estimates of CSA. Reducing heterogeneity between studies might be possible by standardized measures to make data more meaningful in international comparisons.
This is the first study to find that school-based child sexual abuse prevention programs are associated with a reduced incidence of child sexual abuse. Additionally, contrary to concerns voiced in the literature, there was no evidence that prevention programs are associated with decreased sexual satisfaction or avoidance of sex in adulthood. Implications of the results for further study are discussed.
Sexual abuse of boys appears to be common, underreported, underrecognized, and undertreated. Future study requires clearer definitions of abuse, improved sampling, more rigorous data collection, more sophisticated data analyses, and better assessment of management and treatment strategies. Regardless, health care professionals should be more aware of and sensitive to the possibility of sexual abuse in their male patients.
The findings to date justify further research into possible cultural and sociological reasons for lower risk of contact and penetrative sexual abuse of girls and less penetrative abuse of boys in China. Future research should examine sociological explanations, including patterns of supervision, sexual socialization and attitudes related to male sexual prowess.
Comparison of the present study with that of [Finkelhor, D. (1994). The international epidemiology of child sexual abuse. Child Abuse & Neglect, 18 (5), 409-417] shows a similarity between prevalence distributions; there appears to be a general pattern that remains more or less constant over the years, especially in women.
The data did not find a significant relationship between sexual abuse and purging when individual, familial, and extra-familial variables were included in the logistic regression. Unlike most earlier studies that focused on clinical samples, this study drew from a larger, more representative sample of female adolescents. The identification of significant predictors of purging at the individual, familial, and extra-familial levels suggests the importance of examining multiple levels of the teen's ecology for factors that may influence this behavior.
Our findings corroborate and refine the positive conclusions of traditional narrative reviews. Programs that focus on skill training, allowing sufficient time for children to integrate self-protection skills into their cognitive repertoire, are to be preferred. Future evaluation research should focus on transfer of training.
Although the prevalence of child sexual abuse in Los Angeles County remained fairly stable, several circumstances of abuse underwent change. These characteristics are discussed in relation to how sexual abuse among ethnically diverse samples in Los Angeles County has changed over a decade and how these differences can help better tailor prevention messages to different communities.
Skin disinfection by povidone-iodine and isopropyl alcohol is more effective than that by cetrimide/chorhexidine and isopropyl alcohol in reducing venepuncture-associated contamination of platelet concentrates by skin flora. Our data indicate that the disinfection protocol should be used on a routine basis and such implementation should translate into a significant improvement in blood safety to patients receiving platelet transfusion.
Iodine tincture is superior to povidone-iodine for venipuncture site antisepsis before blood culture sampling. Because of the high costs associated with contaminated blood cultures, hospitals should consider switching from povidone-iodine to iodine tincture. Reduction of the contamination rate may improve the quality of patient care and reduce hospital costs.
Two percent (w/v) alcoholic chlorhexidine gluconate with two-step protocol can be used as an antiseptic agent for donor arm preparation without considerable cost difference. It is at par with spirit 10% povidone iodine spirit protocol as suggested by FDA in India. There was no reported transfusion associated bacteremia in the study period.
Throughout a 14-year period the overall incidence of SAB remained stable while the overall short term prognosis continued to improve despite increased age and accumulation of comorbidity in the cohort. However, age and comorbidity were strong prognostic indicators for short term mortality.
Time-dependent models such as the proposed multistate model are necessary to address the temporal dynamics of admission, infection, discharge and death. The impact of S. aureus bacteraemia on mortality should be considered on two levels: the burden of disease, i.e. nosocomial infection with S. aureus bacteraemia, and the burden of resistance to methicillin.
Both clinical and non-clinical factors influence outpatient mental health service use by foster children. Limitations imposed by gender, race/ethnicity, and placement setting need to be addressed by child welfare policies. These finding suggest that guidelines are needed to systematically link children in foster care with behavioral problems to appropriate services.
The child welfare system was actively engaged in arranging mental health services for youths in the foster care system, but the system was unable to maintain many youths in less restrictive living situations. The variations by race and geography indirectly indicate quality concerns.
Older youths in the foster care system have disproportionately high rates of lifetime and past year psychiatric disorders. Results support recommendations for initial and periodic mental health assessments for these youths and mechanisms to continue mental health services for young adults transitioning out of the foster care system.
A history of living in either foster or kinship care is a marker for high-risk sexual behaviors, and the risk is comparable in both out-of-home living arrangements. Recognition of these risks may enable health care providers to intervene with high-risk youth to prevent early initiation of sexual intercourse and early pregnancy.
Supports are needed for families about to be reunified, particularly when the removal was prompted by incidents of abuse or neglect. Incidents of neglect are particularly likely and appropriate services should specifically target factors contributing to neglect. Cases involving youth with a history of repeated foster care placement or in which non-relative placements are utilized may need additional supports.
Children in kinship care had good access to health care, but the level of unmet health needs was high. Children who did not have a single source of health care were more likely to have unmet health needs, especially unmet mental health needs. These findings have implications for future health care planning for children in out-of-home care.
Children in foster care are significantly more likely to suffer from mental health conditions and use more mental health and general health services than AFDC children. Service use and expenditures are comparable with those of disabled children, suggesting that reimbursement rates and care management for children in foster care need to be reexamined.
Early reading performance was associated with the experience of being raised 'in care' but was not an inevitable outcome. It was concluded that the type of substitute caregiving experienced affected reading performance. Institutional upbringing affected reading performance both directly and indirectly through the heightened levels of inattention associated with institutional care.
Foster care placement instability was associated with increased mental health costs during the first year in foster care, particularly among children with increasing general health care costs. These findings highlight the importance of interventions that address the global health of children in foster care and may permit better targeting of health care resources to subgroups of children most likely to use services.
Early prednisone therapy in HSP does not appear to reduce the risk of renal involvement at one year, or the risk of acute gastrointestinal complications. There may be a reduced risk of intussusception. The routine, early use of prednisone in uncomplicated HSP cannot be recommended at this time.
HSP has a good long-term prognosis in unselected patients, although skin relapses with/without late-onset nephritis may occur, even a decade after the initial disease. Urine and blood pressure abnormalities 8 years after HSP are associated with nephritis at its onset. Early prednisone treatment does not affect the outcome and should not be routinely used.
It seems that autoantibodies, although they do not appear to participate in the pathogenesis of psoriasis, are an important feature, and that skin antigens, which appear in lesional immature keratinocytes, cross-react with S. pyogenes and contribute to the autoimmune process in psoriasis.
Short-term treatment with rosuvastatin regulates inflammatory process in patients with heart failure by significantly reducing plasma levels of MPO. This finding reveals a novel pleiotropic effect of statins in patients with heart failure, and provides further insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of MPO in heart failure.
MetS was found to be a powerful and independent predictor of faster AS progression, with more pronounced impact in younger patients. These findings emphasize the importance of routinely identifying and treating MetS in AS patients. The apparent faster stenosis progression in the subset of normocholesterolemic patients with MetS receiving the statin will need to be confirmed by future studies.
In this ASTRONOMER substudy, insulin resistance was a powerful independent predictor of progression to LVH in patients with AS. Visceral obesity and ensuing insulin resistance may thus present novel therapeutic targets in AS patients.
Cholesterol lowering with rosuvastatin 40 mg did not reduce the progression of AS in patients with mild to moderate AS; thus, statins should not be used for the sole purpose of reducing the progression of AS. Clinical Trial Registration Information- URL: http://www.controlled-trials.com/.
Notwithstanding AS severity and increase in hemodynamic load, MetS is independently associated with more pronounced LV concentric hypertrophy and worse myocardial function in patients with AS, which may, in turn, predispose them to the occurrence of adverse events. (Effects of Rosuvastatin on Aortic Stenosis Progression [ASTRONOMER]; 
According to this exploratory, non-controlled retrospective analysis, it can be said that in daily clinical practice in high-cardiovascular-risk Mexican patients, treatment with oral RSV 10 mg/day is more effective and less costly than treatment with the fixed-combination oral E/S 10/20 mg/day.
In patients with the metabolic syndrome, statin-induced changes in LDL cholesterol do not accurately reflect changes in LDL particle concentration. Consequently, despite attainment of LDL cholesterol goals, these patients may retain considerable residual coronary heart disease risk.
Glycaemic control deteriorated in patients with diabetes following high-dose statin therapy. Future controlled studies are needed to verify these findings and, if confirmed, determine whether such changes represent a true decline in glycaemic control. Presently, it appears that, based on the overwhelming prospective trial data available, the preventive effect of statin therapy supersedes that of the slight increase in HbA(1c).
This 12-week study showed that the starting dose of rosuvastatin 10 mg o.d. was significantly more effective than the starting dose of natorvastatin 10 mg o.d. at enabling patients with primary hypercholesterolaemia to achieve European goals for LDL-C and TC in a largely Asian population in real-life clinical practice. The safety profile of rosuvastatin 10 mg is similar to that of atorvastatin 10 mg in the Asian population studied here, and is consistent with the known safety profile of rosuvastatin in the white population.
Rosuvastatin improved the lipid profile. Moreover, both rosuvastatin and metformin reduced inflammation and oxidative stress. These results demonstrate the presence of an additional cardioprotective effect, which may result from a direct mechanism of action or be a pleiotropic effect. Further long-term studies are required to determine whether rosuvastatin or metformin can be used to decrease the cardiovascular risk resulting from oxidative stress and inflammation.
The potent statin improves baPWV and carotid stiffness β, in addition to CIMT (surrogate markers of coronary artery disease), in postmenopausal women with low-risk dyslipidemia. Further studies to clarify the common mechanisms underlying the link between cholesterol-lowering therapy and atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women are required.
While significantly reducing lipoprotein profiles, rosuvastatin therapy had unwanted metabolic effects in hypercholesterolemic patients when compared with pravastatin therapy, that may be clinically relevant in patients prone to metabolic diseases.
Statin therapy is effective in allowing LDL-C goal achievement and improving the lipid profile in hypercholesterolaemic high-risk patients with the MS. Rosuvastatin 10 mg presents significant advantages in goal achievement and lipid lowering over other statins at commonly used doses in patients both with and without the MS.
These data are consistent with the more aggressive cholesterol goals suggested for CHD patients, because achieving such targets also reduced apoB to the recommended level. (Mercury II-Compare the Efficacy and Safety of Lipid Lowering Agents Atorvastatin and Simvastatin With Rosuvastatin in High Risk Subjects With Type IIa and IIb Hypercholesterolemia; 
In children with familial hypercholesterolemia, rosuvastatin 20 mg daily reduced LDL-C by 50%. Nonetheless, only 40% attained the consensus LDL-C target of <110 mg/dl, reflecting these patients' high baseline LDL-C levels (mean, 232 mg/dl). (Pediatric Lipid-Reduction Trial of Rosuvastatin [PLUTO]; NCT00355615).
Rosuvastatin 10, 20 and 40 mg is significantly more effective than atorvastatin 20, 40 and 80 mg, respectively, in improving the LDL-C/HDL-C ratio in patients with cardiovascular disease and low HDL-C. Further studies are required to clarify the benefits of rosuvastatin for reduction of cardiovascular risk.
There is an elevation of VEGF levels early after myocardial revascularization that may reflect a transient ischaemia and potentially may provoke atherosclerotic plaque neovascularization. Rosuvastatin leads to a decrease of VEGF levels that can be a reflection of the influence on endogenous angiogenesis. There was no correlation between inflammatory factors and VEGF that gives a suggestion about an absence of direct CRP and IL-6 impact on VEGF decreasing during statin treatment.
For the treatment of dyslipidemic patients with high CV risk, rosuvastatin is more effective than generic atorvastatin in terms of survival and quality-of-life adjusted survival, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios within the range generally used in Spain, in most sub-populations defined by various combinations of CV risk factors.
The data suggest that, after 16 weeks of therapy, FA + R has an acceptable safety profile and improved TG and HDL-C efficacy versus R. FA + R combination therapy may thus further improve lipid parameters in patients with stage 3 CKD and mixed dyslipidemia. ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: 
Every-other-day dosing of rosuvastatin may be an alternative regimen for cost savings, without a major decrease in therapeutic benefit or increase in adverse events, in patients with hypercholesterolemia. The number of patients achieving their LDL-C goal using the every-other-day regimen is comparable with the number using the once-daily regimen, especially in the low-risk patient category.
Rosuvastatin 10 mg is significantly more effective at achieving NCEP ATP III and European LDL-C goals, lowering LDL-C and TC in both naïve and switched patients and increasing HDL-C in naïve patients than atorvastatin 10mg, with a similar safety and tolerability profile. This study also provides evidence regarding the comparative effects of rosuvastatin versus atorvastatin in Latin American and Portuguese populations.
Addition of BPF to rosuvastatin significantly enhanced rosuvastatin-induced effect on serum lipemic profile compared to rosuvastatin alone. This lipid-lowering effect was associated with significant reductions of biomarkers used for detecting oxidative vascular damage, suggesting a multi-action enhanced potential for BPF in patients on statin therapy.
In these studies, CHD risk strata were inversely related to the likelihood of attaining NCEP LDL-C goals, but did not appear to affect the percentage LDL-C change from baseline. This demonstrates the need for especially aggressive cholesterol lowering necessary to reach the lower LDL-C goal for high-risk patients.
Both atorvastatin and rosuvastatin cause comparable reductions of thromboxane-dependent platelet activation, lipid peroxidation and inflammation. The presence of 3'UTR/LOX-1 polymorphism does not affect the changes induced by either statin.
Rosuvastatin appeared to be an effective statin in hyperlipidaemic HIV-infected patients. Lopinavir/ritonavir levels were not affected by rosuvastatin, but rosuvastatin levels unexpectedly appeared to be increased 1.6-fold compared with data from healthy volunteers. Until safety and efficacy have been confirmed in larger studies, the combination of rosuvastatin and lopinavir/ritonavir should be used with caution.
This is the first prospective study to demonstrate a relationship between increased circulating levels of total dpMGP and faster progression rate of AS in younger individuals. Future studies are needed to determine if dpMGP is simply a marker or a contributing factor to ectopic mineralization of aortic valve.
Lowering the LDL-C level with intensive lipid-lowering therapy is associated with reduced changes in the IMT among Japanese subjects at moderate to high risk under treatment for primary prevention. Subjects suitable for primary prevention may receive cardiovascular benefits from intensive lipid-lowering therapy, in association with significantly slower IMT progression than that observed with conventional therapy.
Statins are effective medicines and confer benefit to patients in terms of primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. Reductions in total cholesterol of 25% or more and LDL cholesterol of more than 30% were recorded for fixed doses of simvastatin 40 mg, atorvastatin 10 mg, and rosuvastatin 5 mg and 10 mg.
There is evidence to suggest that statin therapy is associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of primary and secondary cardiovascular events. As the confidence intervals for each outcome in each prevention category overlap, it is not possible to differentiate, in terms of relative risk, between the effectiveness of statins in primary and secondary prevention. However, the absolute risk of CHD death/non-fatal MI is higher, and the number needed to treat to avoid such an event is consequently lower, in secondary than in primary prevention. The generalisability of these results is limited by the exclusion, in some studies, of patients who were hypersensitive to, intolerant of, or known to be unresponsive to, statins, or who were not adequately compliant with study medication during a placebo run-in phase. Consequently, the treatment effect may be reduced when statins are used in an unselected population. The results of the economic modelling show that statin therapy in secondary prevention is likely to be considered cost-effective. In primary prevention, the cost-effectiveness ratios are dependent on the level of CHD risk and age, but the results for the CVD analyses offer support for the more aggressive treatment recommendation issued by recent guidelines in UK. Evidence on clinical endpoints for rosuvastatin is awaited from on-going trials. The potential targeting of statins at low-risk populations is however associated with major uncertainties, particularly the likely uptake and long-term compliance to lifelong medication by asymptomatic younger patients. The targeting, assessment and monitoring of low-risk patients in primary care would be a major resource implication for the NHS. These areas require further research.
The use of PC had an enhancing effect on the graft maturation process evaluated only by MRI signal intensity, without showing any significant effect in the osteoligamentous interface or tunnel widening evolution. The use of a BP effectively prevented tunnel widening. The BP and PC combination did not show a synergic effect as compared to PC or BP individually.
The VISA-A questionnaire is reliable and displayed construct validity when means were compared in patients with a range of severity of Achilles tendinopathy and control subjects. The continuous numerical result of the VISA-A questionnaire has the potential to provide utility in both the clinical setting and research. The test is not designed to be diagnostic. Further studies are needed to determine whether the VISA-A score predicts prognosis.
Our results indicate that ILSC is safe and effective in preventing stricture recurrence in the long term. The recurrence rate of urethral strictures was significantly lower when ILSC was continued for more than 12 months compared with ILSC that was stopped at 6 months. We conclude that catheterization for at least 1 year is required to achieve adequate urethral stabilization.
The addition of clean intermittent catheterization to direct vision urethrotomy does not improve the likelihood of success. Direct vision urethrotomy for short (less than 1 cm) urethral stricture usually fails following any type of tubularized graft or flap urethroplasty but it had moderate success following onlay flap and urethral plate urethroplasties.
This pilot study has defined a succinct, practical, and psychometrically robust PROM designed specifically to quantify changes in voiding symptoms and HRQoL following urethral stricture surgery.
Of strictures treated with urethroplasty today iatrogenic causes account for about half of the urethral stricture cases in the developed world. In about 1 of 3 cases no obvious cause could be identified. The etiology is significantly different in younger vs older patients and among stricture sites.
  Volumetric brain abnormalities are evident in young adults presenting with a first episode of both affective psychoses and schizophrenia, but there are also significant differences between these two patient groups. Clinical outcome after the first episode may be related to the severity of volumetric abnormalities at presentation.
These observations confirm an association between thalamocortical morphometric abnormalities and schizophrenia, consistent with theoretical models of primary pathoetiological dysfunction in filtering, integration, and information transfer processes in patients with schizophrenia.
The structural brain expression of schizophrenia associated with the highly penetrant 22q11.2 deletion involves lower gray matter volumes in temporal lobe regions. These structural MRI findings in a 22q11.2 deletion syndrome form of schizophrenia are consistent with those from studies involving schizophrenia samples from the general population. The results provide further support for 22q11.2 deletion syndrome as a genetic subtype and as a useful neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia.
Selectively increased radial diffusivity in bipolar disorder patients suggests structural disorganization in fiber tract coherence of neurodevelopmental origin or alterations in myelin sheaths along fiber tracts. In contrast, increased isotropic diffusion along white matter tracts in schizophrenia patients with alterations in both radial and axial diffusivity suggests increased water content outside the axonal space. Thus, the present results suggest that different pathophysiological mechanisms may underlie white matter microstructural abnormalities in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia.
The findings revealed volume loss in the right superior temporal gyrus, right middle temporal gyrus, and right anterior cingulate gyrus among antipsychotic-naive first-episode schizophrenia patients. In addition, the functional networks involving the right superior temporal gyrus and middle temporal gyrus were associated with clinical symptom severity. No abnormalities were observed in resting state connectivity with regions of identified gray matter deficits.
Whereas prefrontal and dorsomedial thalamic gray matter reductions seem to be specific to schizophrenia, anterior thalamic reductions seem to be a marker of liability to psychosis in general. These results are discussed in the context of their functional role and in terms of their connections with other cortical and subcortical structures.
Failure of deactivation in the default mode network is seen in schizophrenic patients when they perform facial emotion tasks. This failure is more extensive than that seen during performance of working memory tasks. The study also supports recent findings of brain structural changes in schizophrenia in the territory of the default mode network.
The DUP prior to first psychiatric admission adversely affects the long-term outcome in schizophrenia. The findings underline the importance of establishing health service programs for early detection and treatment of schizophrenic patients with the aim to shorten the DUP and to consequently improve the course and outcome of schizophrenic patients.
Relatively simple, long-term psychoeducational family therapy should be available to the majority of persons suffering from schizophrenia. Assertive community training programs ought to be offered to patients with frequent relapses and hospitalizations, especially if they have limited family support. Patients with schizophrenia can clearly improve their social competence with social skills training, which may translate into a more adaptive functioning in the community. For patients interested in working, rapid placement with ongoing support offers the best opportunity for maintaining a regular job in the community. Cognitive behavior therapy may benefit the large number of patients who continue to experience disabling psychotic symptoms despite optimal pharmacological treatment.
Frontotemporal brain structural abnormalities are evident in nonpsychotic individuals at high risk of developing schizophrenia. The present meta-analysis indicates that these gray matter abnormalities become more extensive through first-episode and chronic illness. Thus, schizophrenia appears to be a progressive cortico-striato-thalamic loop disorder.
Anatomical changes in first-episode schizophrenia broadly coincide with a basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuit. These changes include bilateral reductions in caudate head gray matter, which are absent in chronic schizophrenia. Comparing first-episode schizophrenia and chronic schizophrenia, the authors did not find evidence for the temporolimbic progression of pathology from hippocampus to amygdala, but there was evidence for progression of cortical changes.
The state of clinical high risk is associated with a very high risk of developing psychosis within the first 3 years of clinical presentation, and the risk progressively increases across this period. The transition risk varies with the age of the patient, the nature of the treatment provided, and the way the syndrome and transition to psychosis are defined.
The relatively new field of HR research in psychosis is exciting. It has the potential to shed light on the development of major psychotic disorders and to alter their course. It also provides a rationale for service provision to those in need of help who could not previously access it and the possibility of changing trajectories for those with vulnerability to psychotic illnesses.
This study expands on previous meta-analyses of the neuroanatomy of schizophrenia by elucidating a series of brain networks disrupted by the illness. Because it is possible that these networks are influenced by independent etiologic factors, this work should foster more detailed neural models of the illness and focus research designed to discover the mechanisms of gray matter reduction in schizophrenia.
This review implicates the left superior temporal gyrus and the left medial temporal lobe as key regions of structural difference in patients with schizophrenia, compared to healthy subjects. The diversity of regions reported in voxel-based morphometry studies is in part related to the choice of variables in the automated process, such as smoothing kernel size and linear versus affine transformation, as well as to differences in patient groups. Voxel-based morphometry can be used as an exploratory whole-brain approach to identify abnormal brain regions in schizophrenia, which should then be validated by using region-of-interest analyses.
The field of early intervention in psychosis is young, with encouraging preliminary results, especially for improving outcome in established FEP. It requires further study, especially of longer-term outcome. Further studies need to examine the effects of a specialized approach on longer-term outcome and to explore cost-effective methods to reduce delays in treatment and provide interventions in the prodromal phase.
The initial decrease in attained height associated with the use of inhaled glucocorticoids in prepubertal children persisted as a reduction in adult height, although the decrease was not progressive or cumulative. (Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute and the National Center for Research Resources; CAMP ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
In children with mild-to-moderate asthma, neither budesonide nor nedocromil is better than placebo in terms of lung function, but inhaled budesonide improves airway responsiveness and provides better control of asthma than placebo or nedocromil. The side effects of budesonide are limited to a small, transient reduction in growth velocity.
In preschool children at high risk for asthma, two years of inhaled-corticosteroid therapy did not change the development of asthma symptoms or lung function during a third, treatment-free year. These findings do not provide support for a subsequent disease-modifying effect of inhaled corticosteroids after the treatment is discontinued. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
Beclomethasone was effective in reducing airway hyperresponsiveness and in controlling symptoms of asthma, but it was associated with decreased linear growth. Salmeterol was not as effective as beclomethasone in reducing airway hyperresponsiveness or in controlling symptoms; however, it was an effective bronchodilator and was not associated with rebound airway hyperresponsiveness, masking of symptoms, or adverse effects.
One year of treatment with a total daily dose of 100 μg of MF-DPI in the morning resulted in no significant difference, whereas a total daily dose of 200 μg of MF-DPI was associated with some changes in growth velocity when compared with placebo. The differences in growth velocity, and the absence of drug-related cortisol effects, support the use of a total daily dose of 100 μg of MF-DPI in children aged 4-9 years with mild persistent asthma.
Most (96%) of the proposed sample was recruited, and the low drop-out rate (8%) demonstrated acceptability of the study protocol. Most children first presenting with symptoms suggestive of asthma were < 6 years old and represented a group biased towards mild to moderate asthma, or virally induced wheeze. The caregiver's QoL questionnaire was found to better reflect a child's symptom changes than a child-centred instrument. In the short term, no adverse effects were seen on growth, but ICS treatment significantly reduced bone metabolism. Most of the young children with asthma/wheeze improved over time with ss2-agonist treatment alone, and clinical benefits of early ICS intervention amongst these children were not detected; however, there was inadequate power in this pilot study to establish this. (AB
In preschool children with recurrent wheeze and a positive asthma predictive index, ciclesonide modestly reduces wheeze exacerbation rates and improves lung function. A large placebo response and unexpected selection of patients with mild disease may have affected outcomes, highlighting the heterogeneity of preschool wheezing disorders.
Budesonide therapy was more effective than nedocromil in reducing FE(NO). Unfortunately, the effects of long-term budesonide were not sustained after its discontinuation. FE(NO) may be a complementary tool to current practice guidelines in assessing asthma control and medication response.
The present clinical practice guideline is the first update of the CTS Asthma Guidelines following the Canadian Respiratory Guidelines Committee's new guideline development process. Tools and strategies to support guideline implementation will be developed and the CTS will continue to regularly provide updates reflecting new evidence.
This meta-analysis suggests that moderate doses of beclomethasone and fluticasone in children with mild to moderate asthma cause a decrease in linear growth velocity of 1.51 cm/year and.43 cm/year, respectively. The effects of inhaled steroids when given for >54 weeks, or on final adult height, remain unknown.
Treatment of asthmatic subjects with inhaled steroids for four weeks leads to improvements in airway hyperresponsiveness to histamine, eosinophil counts in induced sputum, and exhaled nitric oxide levels. The results suggest that these markers may provide different information when monitoring anti-inflammatory treatment in asthma.
This form of intervention for families is effective in promoting secure maternal-infant attachment, preventing maternal mood disorder and is welcomed by the families receiving it. These findings may predict long-term benefits for the healthy development of children otherwise at risk of a range of poor health and development outcomes.
Follow-up evaluation did not demonstrate a positive impact on parenting stress, parenting competence, or quality of the home environment confirming the need to test early program success on longer term outcomes. Further, thestudy not only demonstrated that there was a relationship between maternal, family and environmental factors identified in the immediate postnatal period. and adjustment to the parenting role, but also challenged demographic targeting for child abuse and neglect risk. At the same time, the immediate postnatal period presented an exciting window of opportunity to access high-risk families who may otherwise have become marginalized from traditional services.
Applying a lay promotora model to deliver the behavioural problem solving intervention unfortunately was not effective. A likely explanation relates to the difficulty of delivering a relatively complex intervention by lay women untrained in behaviour change theory and research methods.
This study targeted a large sample of racially and ethnically diverse low-income families, in whom both exposure and disease burden is likely to be significant. This is the first study to our knowledge that has been effective in reducing objective measures of passive smoke exposure in households with healthy children. These findings have important implications for pediatric health care providers, who play an important role in working with parents to protect children's health. Providers can help parents work toward reducing household passive smoke exposure using motivational strategies and providing a menu of approaches regardless of whether the parents are ready to quit.
A brief intervention to advise parents of asthmatic children about the risks from passive smoking was ineffective in reducing their children's exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. The intervention may have made some parents less inclined to stop smoking. If a clinician believes that a child's health is being affected by parental smoking, the parent's smoking needs to be addressed as a separate issue from the child's health.
Many children are exposed to high levels of environmental tobacco smoke and their cotinine levels are heavily dependent upon proximity to the parent who smokes. Parents who smoke have a unique opportunity to benefit their child's health by modifying their smoking habits within the home.
Many low-income urban children with asthma in King County live in indoor environments that place them at substantial risk of ongoing exposure to asthma triggers. Substandard housing and lack of resources often underlie these exposures. Initiatives involving health educators, outreach workers, medical providers, health care insurers, housing agencies, and elected officials are needed to reduce these exposures.
Early weaning may result from psychological or physiological changes associated with tobacco use. Smoking relapse prevention in the postpartum period may be one of the most effective interventions in ensuring that women who stop smoking for pregnancy remain stopped and breastfeed their babies for the recommended duration.
A brief program can lead to major increases in the willingness of pediatricians to deliver smoking advice. A 1- to 2-minute intervention delivered in the context of usual well baby care can have a positive impact on maternal smoking and especially upon relapse prevention. A recent smoking history should be obtained from all mothers of newborns so that interventions can be aimed at both cessation and relapse prevention.
Although a large percentage of eligible participants enrolled in the ETS reduction trial, findings suggest that future recruitment strategies of families should be tailored to parental smoking status and gender, as well as child diagnosis and treatment.
The intervention did not change parents' propensity to create or maintain bans on smoking in their homes or otherwise change smoking habits to reduce their children's exposure to ETS. More intensive interventions may be required to achieve change among low-income smoker parents of children with asthma.
This intervention significantly reduced asthma health-care utilization in ETS-exposed, low-income, minority children. Effects sizes for urine cotinine and proportion prohibiting smoking were moderate to large but not statistically significant, possibly the result of reduced precision due to the loss of patients to active follow-up. Improving ETS reduction interventions and understanding their mechanism of action on asthma outcomes requires further controlled trials that measure ETS exposure and behavioral and disease outcomes concurrently.
Among inner-city children with atopic asthma, an individualized, home-based, comprehensive environmental intervention decreases exposure to indoor allergens, including cockroach and dust-mite allergens, resulting in reduced asthma-associated morbidity.
A smoker's motivation to quit and the presence in the home of a nonsmoking adult or of children predict adoption of HSR by inner-city black smokers. Therefore, health professionals should motivate the smoker toward HSR and the nonsmoking partner toward advocating home smoking bans, thereby eliminating environmental tobacco smoke in the home.
In this group of young children, hair nicotine was a more precise biomarker of exposure to ETS than urine cotinine levels, using questionnaire reports as the reference. Both biomarkers indicate that smoking outside the house limits ETS exposure of children but does not eliminate it.
Nearly a quarter of smoking pregnant women did not report smoking. Moreover, of those who did, the amount smoked was often under reported. This tendency to under report may rise as pressures to stop smoking increase. Accurate measures of smoking prevalence in pregnant women will require objective testing.
The use of tobacco products by household members, even among nonsmoking mothers, has an enormous adverse impact on the health of children, as well as increases health services use and cost. The present data support the revision of public policy to reflect an evidence-based approach to the promotion of smoking cessation in all household members during and after pregnancy. environmental tobacco smoke, health services, infants.
The relationship between parental smoking and acute lower respiratory illness in infancy is very likely to be causal. Although it is impossible to distinguish the independent contributions of prenatal and postnatal maternal smoking, the increased risk associated with smoking by other household members suggests that exposure to environmental tobacco smoke after birth is a cause of acute chest illness in young children.
This retrospective analysis confirms that patients undergoing chemotherapy including gemcitabine, platinum analogues or their combination are at higher risk of TEs. Our results also suggest that outpatients receiving chemotherapy regimens including these agents might achieve an increased benefit from thromboprophylaxis with nadroparin.
Trends suggesting reduced VTE and increased intracranial bleeding were seen in the LMWH thromboprophylaxis group. The role of long-term anticoagulant thromboprophylaxis in patients with brain tumors remains uncertain.
Certoparin 3,000 UaXa o.d. and 5,000 IU UFH t.i.d. were equally effective and safe with respect to bleeding complications in patients with cancer. There were no statistically significant differences in the risk of thromboembolic events in patients with or without cancer receiving adequate anticoagulation.
Decision to administer prophylactic nadroparin in hospitalised cancer patients under palliative care remains a challenge. Better mobility score at admission and the likelihood to be discharged home may be useful for practical purposes. The observation of a potential influence of prophylactic nadroparin on survival deserves further studies.
The annual incidence of VTE in patients treated with chemotherapy was high, specifically in patients with colorectal cancer treated with fluorouracil-leucovorin. If these observations are confirmed, trials to evaluate the use of prophylactic anticoagulant treatment should be conducted.
UWP may augment pulmonary antioxidant capacity and be therapeutically beneficial in individuals exhibiting EIB, as postchallenge pulmonary function improved with supplementation. The lack of significant change in eNO suggests that the pulmonary function improvements from UWP supplementation are independent of eNO.
Women who are currently heavy smokers are at increased risk of having colds with longer duration compared with nonsmokers. Nonsmoking women passively exposed to cigarette smoking are at slightly increased risk of having more frequent and longer colds than nonsmoking women not exposed to passive smoke.
Both NNF and control groups demonstrated improvement in asthma-free days. NNF-treated group had reduced biomarkers of disease activity. Rapid PBMC fatty acid composition changes reflected an anti-inflammatory profile. Dietary supplementation with NNF was safe and well tolerated (ClinicalTrials.gov number 
Modifying the dietary intake of carotenoids alters clinical asthma outcomes. Improvements were evident only after increased fruit and vegetable intake, which suggests that whole-food interventions are most effective. This trial was registered at http://www.actr.org.au as ACTRN012606000286549.
Given the safety and low cost of vitamin C, and the positive findings for vitamin C administration in the three EIB studies, it seems reasonable for physically active people to test vitamin C when they have respiratory symptoms such as cough associated with exercise. Further research on the effects of vitamin C on EIB is warranted.
Mortality among patients hospitalized for asthma exacerbations accounts for one-third of all deaths from asthma. The higher overall risk of death from asthma in black patients compared with white patients in the United States is not explained by race differences in hospital deaths and therefore is attributable to factors preceding hospitalization.
In the absence of existing instruments that meet the stated criteria, currently available instruments are classified as either supplemental or emerging. Research is strongly recommended to develop and evaluate instruments that provide a distinct, reliable measure of the patient's perception of the impact of asthma on all of the key dimensions of QOL, an important outcome that is not captured in other outcome measures.
The in vitro model demonstrated a considerable reduction (p < 0.01) in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial adherence to a triclosan-coated braided suture, which was associated with decreased microbial viability (p < 0.001). Because bacterial contamination of suture material within a surgical wound may increase the virulence of a surgical site infection, treating the suture with triclosan provides an effective strategy for reducing perioperative surgical morbidity.
These results demonstrate additional factors that increase the risk of developing SSI. Deep and organ/space infections have a different risk profile. This information should guide clinicians in their assessment of SSI risk and should identify targets for intervention to decrease the incidence of SSI.
Our data show that risk factors for SSI and for global infectious complications are disparate. Indeed, only the placement of a suture or having an anastomosis of the bowel in the digestive tract is a risk factor for both SSI and global infections. Some of these factors may be modifiable before or during the surgical procedure to reduce the infection rate or to prevent postoperative complications.
Topical IFNalpha2a as a single therapeutic agent was an effective alternative in the treatment of our 2 patients with Mooren's ulcer. It offers the benefits of topical therapy and avoided surgical or other interventions that may lead to stem cell deficiency. Larger controlled studies are necessary to confirm the long-term efficacy and safety of this treatment.
Chronic HCV virus infection is associated with Mooren-type peripheral ulcerative keratitis. All patients with Mooren-type ulcers should be tested for evidence of HCV infection in consultation with a liver specialist. Even when improvement is obtained with interferon alfa-2b treatment, however, continued follow-up is important because relapse is common and repeat treatment may be effective.
The Q-H/C appliance was effective in correcting the dental open bite in 90% of growing subjects with thumb-sucking habits and dentoskeletal open bites. The Q-H/C protocol produced a clinically significant improvement in the vertical skeletal relationships because of downward rotation of the palatal plane.
The Q-H/C appliance was effective in correcting dental open bite in 85% of the growing subjects with thumb-sucking habits and dentoskeletal open bites. Correction of anterior open bite was associated with a clinically significant improvement in maxillomandibular vertical skeletal relationships.
To intercept the development of crossbites and functional shifts, the developing occlusion should be observed in the deciduous dentition in children with prolonged digit or pacifier habits. The transverse occlusal relationship, particularly in pacifier-sucking children, should be evaluated between 2 and 3 years of age. If there are interfering contacts of the deciduous canines, the parents should be instructed to reduce pacifier-sucking time, and appropriate treatment should be rendered, if required.
In the included case series publications, success of both the SX and NSX treatments of AOB appeared to be greater than 75%. Because the SX and the NSX were examined in different studies and applied to different clinical populations, no direct assessment of comparative effectiveness was possible. The pooled results should be viewed with caution because of the lack of within-study control groups and the variability among studies.
Published case-control studies demonstrate a significant reduced risk of SIDS with pacifier use, particularly when placed for sleep. Encouraging pacifier use is likely to be beneficial on a population-wide basis: 1 SIDS death could be prevented for every 2733 (95% CI: 2416-3334) infants who use a pacifier when placed for sleep (number needed to treat), based on the US SIDS rate and the last-sleep multivariate SOR resulting from this analysis. Therefore, we recommend that pacifiers be offered to infants as a potential method to reduce the risk of SIDS. The pacifier should be offered to the infant when being placed for all sleep episodes, including daytime naps and nighttime sleeps. This is a US Preventive Services Task Force level B strength of recommendation based on the consistency of findings and the likelihood that the beneficial effects will outweigh any potential negative effects. In consideration of potential adverse effects, we recommend pacifier use for infants up to 1 year of age, which includes the peak ages for SIDS risk and the period in which the infant's need for sucking is highest. For breastfed infants, pacifiers should be introduced after breastfeeding has been well established.
This study has shown that reduced overbite and anterior open bites were significantly more prevalent in digit suckers. The orthodontic management of anterior open bites can involve complex and prolonged treatment. Early intervention to eliminate digit sucking habits is therefore recommended on both oral health and health economic grounds.
Non-nutritive sucking habits are associated with the establishment of anterior open bite and increased overjet in the primary dentition. These malocclusions are, in turn, significantly associated with an increased prevalence of dental trauma in the primary dentition.
These results suggest that the edentulous patients treated by dentists and denturologists share similar sociodemographic characteristics, and pay a similar cost for treatment. However, those treated by denturologists seem to be more dissatisfied with their mandibular prostheses than those treated by dentists.
The available data indicates that dental therapist/hygienists have suitable skills and could constitute a valuable asset to meet the dental demands in remote-rural areas. However, the evidence base is limited and of a poor quality. There is a need to put in place 'well-designed interventions with robust evaluation to examine cost-effectiveness and benefits to patients and the health workforce'.
The authors concluded that the quality of the evidence was poor. They found that in select groups in which participants received irreversible dental treatment from teams that included midlevel providers, caries increment, caries severity or both decreased across time; however, there was no difference in caries increment, caries severity or both compared with those in populations in which dentists provided all irreversible treatment. In select groups in which participants had received irreversible dental treatment from teams that included midlevel providers, there was a decrease in untreated caries across time and a decrease in untreated caries compared with that in populations in which dentists provided all treatment.
Following the acute phase of presentation and treatment for pit viper envenomation, there appears to be a roughly 2-week subacute phase of the disease during which ongoing presence of venom may result in serious delayed or recurrent coagulation defects. Late hypofibrinogenemia and thrombocytopenia are associated with recurrent venonemia and drop in antivenom levels. This pattern was apparent in patients treated with Fab antivenom but was not seen among F(ab')2 recipients in this Phase 2 study, consistent with pharmacokinetic differences between the two products. Improved understanding of Fab pharmacokinetics is important for the management of coagulopathy-prone pit viper envenomation. Use of F(ab')2 antivenom may prevent recurrent venom effects, but larger studies are necessary for statistical confirmation of this observation.
FFP administration after antivenom administration results in more rapid restoration of clotting function in most patients, but no decrease in discharge time. Early FFP administration (< 6-8 h) post-bite is less likely to be effective.
Pretreatment with low-dose adrenaline was safe and reduced the risk of acute severe reactions to snake antivenom. This may be of particular importance in countries where adverse reactions to antivenom are common, although the need to improve the quality of available antivenom cannot be overemphasized.
Adequate concentration of iodine in breast milk is essential to provide for optimal neonatal thyroid hormone stores and to prevent impaired neurological development in breast-fed neonates. In many countries of the world, low iodine content of the breast milk indicates less than optimum maternal and infant iodine nutrition. The current WHO/ICCIDD/UNICEF recommendation for daily iodine intake (250 microg for lactating mothers) has been selected to ensure that iodine deficiency dose not occur in the postpartum period and that the iodine content of the milk is sufficient for the infant's iodine requirement.
Iodine prophylaxis should be given systematically to women during pregnancy. In most public health programmes dealing with the correction of iodine deficiency disorders, iodised salt has been used as the preferred means to deliver iodine to households. Iodised salt, however, is not the ideal means of delivering iodine in the specific instances of pregnancy, breast-feeding and complementary feeding because of the need to limit salt intake during these periods. In European countries, presently it is proposed that iodine is given to pregnant women and breast-feeding mothers by systematically administering multivitamin tablets containing iodine in order to reach the recommended dietary allowance of 250 microg iodine day-1.
Iodine supplementation improved perceptual reasoning in mildly iodine-deficient children and suggests that mild iodine deficiency could prevent children from attaining their full intellectual potential. The trial was registered with the Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Register as ACTRN12608000222347.
In this review, we highlight a lack of quality evidence of the effect of prenatal or periconceptional iodine supplementation on growth and cognitive function of children. Although contemporary RCTs of iodine supplementation with outcomes addressing childhood development are indicated, conduct of such RCTs may not be feasible in populations where iodine supplementation in pregnancy is widely practiced.
The WHO/CDC logic model simplifies the process of developing a logic model by providing a tool that has identified high-priority areas and concepts that apply to virtually all public health micronutrient interventions. Countries can adapt it to their context in order to support programme design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation for the successful scale-up of nutrition interventions in public health.
Studies administering >400 μg folic acid/d show no dose-response relation and thus will not yield meaningful results for consideration when generating dietary folate recommendations. The calculated folate biomarker response to a given folic acid intake may be more robust with the use of a microbiological assay rather than alternative methods for blood folate measurement.
Meta-analysis results (limited to the MA, the recommended population assessment method) indicated a consistent percentage difference in S/P and RBC folate concentrations across MTHFR C677T genotypes. Lower blood folate concentrations associated with this polymorphism could have implications for a population-level risk of neural tube defects.
When treatment is necessary for phimosis, we recommend application of topical steroid as first-line treatment because surgery can then be avoided in 85% of cases. This first randomized, double-blind, follow-up study shows that the treatment effect persists for at least 18 months.
The present investigation adds up and supports the effectiveness of phimosis topical corticoid treatment. Nevertheless, hygiene and preputial traction, when appropriately performed, seem to play an important role in the disappearance of the phimotic ring as well. New studies are necessary to confirm if this is true or not.
Phimosis is a physiological condition in neonates due to natural adhesion between the foreskin and the glans. Chronic infection due to poor hygiene is responsible for most cases of childhood phimosis. Circumcision is the traditional treatment of choice for phimosis or unretractable foreskin, although it is not always desired by parents or surgeons. Topical steroid cream is an easy, safe and nonsurgical alternative for phimosis. However, boys with a buried penis are not good candidates for steroid treatment.
The most cost-effective management for treating phimosis is to initiate topical therapy. Daily external application from the tip of the foreskin to the glandis corona with betamethasone 0.05% cream for 4 to 6 weeks has been demonstrated to be very effective, resulting in a 75% savings compared with circumcision. Surgical intervention should not be considered until topical therapy has been given an adequate trial. When contemplating surgery, the lower morbidity, lower costs, and tissue preservation of preputial plasty may make it preferable.
Sirolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, did not decrease the incidence of acute rejection at 1 year compared with azathioprine in lung transplantation. These results differ from previous results in cardiac and renal transplantation and emphasize the need for multicenter randomized controlled trials in lung transplantation. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (
These data support results from other solid-organ transplantation studies and suggest further investigation of this agent in the treatment of lung transplant recipients at high risk for CMV events.
This 3-year ITT analysis found no significant difference between arms but was underpowered to accept the null hypothesis that RAD and MPS have equivalent efficacy in preventing BOS or death after lung transplantation.
In this single center trial, ACsA appears to ameliorate important pulmonary function parameters in lung transplant recipients compared to aerosol placebo and historical control patients. Single- and double-lung transplant recipients may not respond uniformly to treatment, and ongoing randomized trials in lung transplant recipients using ACsA may help elucidate our findings.
The CFQoL questionnaire is a fully validated disease specific measure consisting of 52 items across nine domains of functioning which have been identified by, and are of importance to, adolescents and adults with cystic fibrosis. This measure will be useful in clinical trials and longitudinal studies.
Daclizumab constitutes a safe and effective form of induction immunosuppressive therapy. Using a two-dose administration schedule, daclizumab prolonged the time without acute rejection compared to ATG. The differences in the incidence of infectious complications, acute rejection, or BOS as well as the short-term or long-term results were not significantly different. The results of the study justify the further use of daclizumab as an induction agent in patients following lung transplantation.
Patient benefit from new and current CF therapies can be evaluated using changes in CFQ-R-Respiratory scores. Using the MCID provides a systematic way to interpret these changes, and facilitates the identification of CF treatments that improve both symptoms and physiologic variables, potentially leading to better treatment adherence and clinical outcomes. Trial registration (study 1-exacerbation): Australian-New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry Identifier: ACTRN 12605000602628 Trial registration (study 2-stable): ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 
This evidence-based guideline focused on AED efficacy or effectiveness as initial monotherapy for patients with newly diagnosed or untreated epilepsy. The absence of rigorous comprehensive adverse effects data makes it impossible to develop an evidence-based guideline aimed at identifying the overall optimal recommended initial-monotherapy AED. There is an especially alarming lack of well-designed, properly conducted RCTs for patients with generalized seizures/epilepsies and for children in general. The majority of relevant existing RCTs have significant methodologic problems that limit their applicability to this guideline's clinically relevant main question. Multicenter, multinational efforts are needed to design, conduct and analyze future clinically relevant RCTs that can answer the many outstanding questions identified in this guideline. The ultimate choice of an AED for any individual patient with newly diagnosed or untreated epilepsy should include consideration of the strength of the efficacy and effectiveness evidence for each AED along with other variables such as the AED safety and tolerability profile, pharmacokinetic properties, formulations, and expense. When selecting a patient's AED, physicians and patients should consider all relevant variables and not just efficacy and effectiveness.
Results of this systematic literature review suggest that the overall incidence of CMs in children born of WWE is approximately threefold that of healthy women. The risk is elevated for all AED monotherapy and further elevated for AED polytherapy compared to women without epilepsy. The risk was significantly higher for children exposed to valproate monotherapy and to polytherapy of 2 or more drugs when the polytherapy combination included phenobarital, phenytoin, or valproate. Further research is needed to delineate the specific risk for each individual AED and to determine underlying mechanisms including genetic risk factors.
Only 4.2% of live births to women with epilepsy had an MCM. The MCM rate for polytherapy exposure was greater than for monotherapy exposure. Polytherapy regimens containing valproate had significantly more MCMs than those not containing valproate. For monotherapy exposures, carbamazepine was associated with the lowest risk of MCM.
None of the intervention strategies led to improvements in patient quality of life or quality of epilepsy care. Further research is needed to discover why the interventions failed, to identify barriers to adoption of guidelines, and to develop strategies that might improve implementation and uptake in the future.
While both treatment groups showed similar efficacy results regarding treatment success (IGA), significant advantages were observed for EASI, itch and sleep with MPA 0.1%. These advantages and the significantly lower treatment costs highlight the benefits of MPA treatment, underlining its first-line role in treatment of children and adolescents with severe AD.
Tacrolimus not only inhibits T-lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine production, but also plays an important role in the IL-12-induced shift from a T-helper (Th) 2 to a Th1 cytokine profile that characterizes the development of chronic AD. Tacrolimus also demonstrates wider pharmacodynamic effects than hydrocortisone.
0.03% tacrolimus ointment applied once or twice daily is significantly more efficacious than 1% HA in treating moderate-severe AD in children. Twice daily application of 0.03% tacrolimus ointment results in the greatest improvement in mEASI, and is especially effective in patients with severe baseline disease.
In addition to its known antiinflammatory effect, tacrolimus 0.1% ointment leads also to a measurable increase of the lipids of the skin barrier in patients with atopic dermatitis, exceeding the effect of mometasone furoate cream.
Tacrolimus 0.1% ointment has superior efficacy to fluticasone 0.005% ointment for twice-daily treatment of adults with moderate to severe facial AD in whom conventional therapy was inadequately effective or not tolerated. Tacrolimus 0.1% ointment is a safe and effective second-line treatment for the control of moderate to severe AD of the face.
Estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio are far below the currently discussed threshold in Sweden, corresponding to approximately 48,700 British pound per QALY gained, and equivalent thresholds in other countries. Treatment with tacrolimus ointment in patients with moderate and severe AD can therefore be considered cost-effective.
In Spain, ADR reporting rate in the paediatric population has increased since 2004. The proportion of suspected ADR reports related to vaccines was predominant, which highlights the important role played by nurses. ADR notification of congenital malformations in newborn infants highlights the need for joint action between the Spanish System of Pharmacovigilance of Medicines for Human Use (SEFV-H) and paediatricians, obstetricians and gynaecologists. The publication of safety reports by regulatory agencies is determinant for the increased number of ADR notifications.
Patients with Netherton syndrome have a skin barrier dysfunction that puts them at risk for increased percutaneous absorption. The Food and Drug Administration recently approved 0.1% tacrolimus ointment for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. Children with Netherton syndrome may be misdiagnosed as having atopic dermatitis. These children are at risk for marked systemic absorption and associated toxic effects. If topical tacrolimus is used in this setting, monitoring of serum tacrolimus levels is essential.
Our observations suggest that the spectrum of rosaceiform dermatitis as a complication of treatment with tacrolimus ointment is heterogeneous. A variety of factors, such as vasoactive properties of tacrolimus, proliferation of Demodex due to local immunosuppression, and the occlusive properties of the ointment, may be involved in the observed phenomena. Future studies are needed to identify individual risk factors.
Both topical pimecrolimus and topical tacrolimus are more effective than placebo treatments for atopic dermatitis, but in the absence of studies that show long term safety gains, any advantage over topical corticosteroids is unclear. Topical tacrolimus is similar to potent topical corticosteroids and may have a place for long term use in patients with resistant atopic dermatitis on sites where side effects from topical corticosteroids might develop quickly. In the absence of key comparisons with mild corticosteroids, the clinical need for topical pimecrolimus is unclear. The usefulness of either treatment in patients who have failed to respond adequately to topical corticosteroids is also unclear.
Atopic dermatitis greatly affects the quality of life of afflicted children and their families. The comprehensive conceptual framework summarizes the ways in which atopic dermatitis affects the quality of life in young American children. This conceptual framework forms the basis from which quality-of-life instruments can be developed.
TCIs in AD are more effective than placebo. Although less effective than TCs, pimecrolimus has its value in long-term maintenance and as a steroid-sparing agent in AD, whenever used early enough, at first appearance of erythema and/or itching. In treatment of moderate to severe AD, topical tacrolimus is as effective as moderately potent TCs, and more effective than mild preparations. Chronic AD lesions of the face and flexures are the most justified indication for topical calcineurin inhibitors.
This study demonstrated that the EASI can be learned quickly and utilized reliably in the assessment of severity and extent of AD. There was consistency among the evaluators between consecutive days of evaluation. These results support the use of the EASI in clinical trials of therapeutic agents for AD.
A careful history, including consideration of alcohol use, should be obtained in patients who use topical tacrolimus and present with new skin complaints, because these factors may be evidence of an avoidable drug interaction and not worsening of atopic disease or a food allergy.
Tacrolimus proved almost as effective as clobetasol propionate to restore skin color in lesions of vitiligo in children. Because it does not produce atrophy or other adverse effects, tacrolimus may be very useful for younger patients and for sensitive areas of the skin such as eyelids, and it should be considered in other skin disorders currently treated with topical steroids for prolonged periods.
The safety profile of intermittent or continuous long-term application of 0.1% tacrolimus ointment for up to 4 years was consistent with that which has been established from shorter studies and gave no reason for concern. In addition, 0.1% tacrolimus ointment demonstrated sustained efficacy as reflected by the expression of high satisfaction with treatment by both patients and investigators.
Vehicle-controlled trials indicate efficacy of proactive treatment with tacrolimus, fluticasone propionate and methylprednisolone aceponate to prevent AE flares. Indirect evidence from vehicle-controlled trials suggests that twice weekly application of the potent topical corticosteroid fluticasone propionate may be more efficacious to prevent AE flares than tacrolimus ointment. Head to head trials should be conducted to confirm these results. Future studies are also needed to evaluate the long-term safety of proactive treatment of AE.
Atopic eczema is a common health problem for children and adolescents throughout the world. Symptoms of atopic eczema exhibit wide variations in prevalence both within and between countries inhabited by similar ethnic groups, suggesting that environmental factors may be critical in determining disease expression. Studies that include objective skin examinations are required to confirm these findings.
This study is one of the only long-term follow-up studies of children who participated in preschool early interventions aimed at targeting core developmental difficulties. The study findings suggest that focusing on joint attention and play skills in comprehensive treatment models is important for long-term spoken language outcomes.
The Transporters programme showed limited efficacy in teaching basic emotion recognition skills to young children with autism with a lower range of cognitive ability. Improvements were limited to the recognition of expressions of anger, with poor maintenance of these skills at follow-up. These findings provide limited support for the efficacy of the Transporters programme for young children with autism of a lower cognitive range.
A Randomised Treatment Trial design of this kind in classical autism is feasible and acceptable to patients. This pilot study suggests significant additional treatment benefits following a targeted (but relatively non-intensive) dyadic social communication treatment, when compared with routine care. The study needs replication on larger and independent samples. It should encourage further RCT designs in this area.
The HMTW intervention showed differential effects on child communication depending on a baseline child factor. HMTW facilitated communication in children with lower levels of Time 1 object interest. Parents of children who evidence higher object interest may require greater support to implement the HMTW strategies, or may require different strategies than those provided by the HMTW curriculum.
This is the first randomized, controlled trial to demonstrate the efficacy of a comprehensive developmental behavioral intervention for toddlers with ASD for improving cognitive and adaptive behavior and reducing severity of ASD diagnosis. Results of this study underscore the importance of early detection of and intervention in autism.
The results indicate modest effectiveness of PECS teacher training/consultancy. Rates of pupils' initiations and use of symbols in the classroom increased, although there was no evidence of improvement in other areas of communication. TREATMENT effects were not maintained once active intervention ceased.
  These data suggest that significant improvements can be made in peer social connections for children with autism spectrum disorders in general education classrooms with a brief intervention, and that these gains persist over time.
Recent increases in reported autism diagnoses might not be unique among childhood neuropsychiatric disorders and might be part of a more widespread epidemiologic phenomenon. The reasons for the observed common pattern of change in reported cumulative incidence could not be determined in this study, but the data underscore the growing awareness of and demand for services for children with neurodevelopmental disorders in general.
The rise in incidence of all types of ASDs by year of diagnosis appears to be related to changes in diagnostic and service provision practices in WA. In children aged <or=5 years, diagnosis of severe ID decreased, but mild-moderate ID increased during the study period. A true increase in ASD cannot be ruled out.
In the context of no additional benefit for the prevention of wound infection or the rate of wound healing for any of the three dressing products examined, dry absorbent dressings are the most comfortable and cost-effective products for sternotomy wounds following cardiac surgery.
The use of standardised, valid and reliable definitions is fundamental to the accurate measurement and monitoring of surgical adverse events. This review found inconsistency in the quality of reporting of postoperative adverse events, limiting accurate comparison of rates over time and between institutions. The duration of follow-up for individual events will vary according to their natural history and epidemiology. Although risk-adjusted aggregated rates can act as screening or warning systems for adverse events, attribution of whether events are avoidable or preventable will invariably require further investigation at the level of the individual, unit or department. CONCLUSIONS - RECOMMENDATIONS FOR RESEARCH: (1) A single, standard definition of surgical wound infection is needed so that comparisons over time and between departments and institutions are valid, accurate and useful. Surgeons and other healthcare professionals should consider adopting the 1992 Centers for Disease Control (CDC) definition for superficial incisional, deep incisional and organ/space surgical site infection for hospital monitoring programmes and surgical audits. There is a need for further methodological research into the performance of the CDC definition in the UK setting. (2) There is a need to formally assess the reliability of self-diagnosis of surgical wound infection by patients. (3) There is a need to assess formally the reliability of case ascertainment by infection control staff. (4) Work is needed to create and agree a standard, valid and reliable definition of anastomotic leak which is acceptable to surgeons. (5) A systematic review is needed of the different diagnostic tests for the diagnosis of DVT. (6) The following variables should be considered in any future DVT review: anatomical region (lower limb, upper limb, pelvis); patient presentation (symptomatic, asymptomatic); outcome of diagnostic test (successfully completed, inconclusive, technically inadequate, negative); length of follow-up; cost of test; whether or not serial screening was conducted; and recording of laboratory cut-off values for fibrinogen equivalent units. (7) A critical review is needed of the surgical risk scoring used in monitoring systems. (8) In the absence of automated linkage there is a need to explore the benefits and costs of monitoring in primary care. (9) The growing potential for automated linkage of data from different sources (including primary care, the private sector and death registers) needs to be explored as a means of improving the ascertainment of surgical complications, including death. This linkage needs to be within the terms of data protection, privacy and human rights legislation. (10) A review is needed of the extent of the use and efficiency of routine hospital data versus special collections or voluntary reporting.
Previous analyses of the ISOLDE study showed significant improvement on disease-specific health status measures and a trend toward a survival advantage for treatment with FP. This analysis shows that joint considerations of quality of life and survival result in a substantial increase in QALYs favoring treatment with FP. Based on these data, the inhaled corticosteroid FP appears cost-effective for the treatment of COPD. Confirmation or refutation of this result may be achieved once the Towards a Revolution in COPD Health (TORCH) study reports, a large randomized controlled trial powered to detect mortality changes associated with the use of FP alone, or in combination with salmeterol, which is also collecting resource use and utility data suitable for estimating cost-effectiveness.
Both the established intervention and established intervention plus DASH dietary pattern group intervention were effective in helping participants follow established recommendations to control blood pressure. The advice-only control group also made some behavior changes, mainly decreasing energy and sodium intake. Only the established intervention plus DASH dietary pattern group significantly increased intakes of DASH-specific food groups, including fruits, vegetables, and dairy products, and nutrients, including protein, fiber, calcium, potassium, and magnesium. Most of the increases did not reach the levels consumed in the original DASH feeding studies. Whereas the established intervention plus DASH dietary pattern group intervention provides a useful platform to achieve the DASH dietary pattern and current DRI recommendations, intervention enhancements, including a greater emphasis on nutrient-dense foods, would likely improve this intervention.
The vulnerability-stress-coping model of schizophrenia suggests possible interpretations of these findings. Group 1 might suffer from the chronic deteriorating influence of cannabis reducing the vulnerability threshold and/or coping resources. Group 2 consists of individuals which are already vulnerable to schizophrenia. Cannabis misuse then is the (dopaminergic) stress factor precipitating the onset of psychosis. Group 3 uses cannabis for self-medication against (or for coping with) symptoms of schizophrenia, particularly negative and depressive symptoms. These patients probably learn to counterbalance a hypodopaminergic prefrontal state by the dopaminergic effects of cannabis. The implications of these very preliminary results include issues of treatment and prognosis, but replication studies are needed.
Evidence for efficacy of treatment of RAP in children was found for therapies that used famotidine, pizotifen, cognitive-behavioral therapy, biofeedback, and peppermint oil enteric-coated capsules. The effects of dietary fiber were less conclusive, and the use of a lactose-free diet showed no improvement. There seemed to be greater improvement when therapy (famotidine, pizotifen, peppermint oil) was targeted to the specific functional gastrointestinal disorder (dyspepsia, abdominal migraine, irritable bowel syndrome). The behavioral interventions seemed to have a general positive effect on children with nonspecific RAP. Many of these therapies have not been used widely as standard treatment for children with RAP. Although the mechanism of action for each effective therapy is not fully understood, each is believed to be safe for use in RAP.
Any combination of > or =3 DTP/DTaP vaccine doses for children 6 to 59 months of age was highly protective against pertussis. However, there were differences according to vaccine type (DTaP or DTP) and DTaP manufacturer. Among children who received 4 pertussis vaccine doses, a combination of 3 DTP doses followed by 1 DTaP dose had a slightly higher VE than other combinations; among children who received 3 or 4 DTaP vaccine doses, 1 DTaP vaccine performed less well. The finding that pertussis dose 4 was more effective when given to children at > or =14 months of age might be confounded if health care providers were more likely to vaccinate children at 12 months of age because of a perceived risk of undervaccination and if these same children were also at higher risk for pertussis. Household members of any age group and relationship could have been the source of pertussis, and household structure was associated with risk for pertussis for children 6 to 23 months of age. In contrast to control children in the study, 26% of case children had never been vaccinated against pertussis. Unvaccinated children are at risk for pertussis and, in a community with other unvaccinated children, can lead to community-wide pertussis outbreaks. Parents need to be educated about the morbidity and mortality risks associated with Bordetella pertussis infection, and they need to be encouraged to vaccinate their children against pertussis on time and with the recommended number of vaccine doses for optimal protection.
The critically burned patient differs from other critically ill patients in many ways, the most important being the necessity of a team approach to patient care. The burn patient is best cared for in a dedicated burn center where resuscitation and monitoring concentrate on the pathophysiology of burns, inhalation injury, and edema formation. Early operative intervention and wound closure, metabolic interventions, early enteral nutrition, and intensive glucose control have led to continued improvements in outcome. Prevention of complications such as hypothermia and compartment syndromes is part of burn critical care. The myriad areas where standards and guidelines are currently determined only by expert opinion will become driven by level 1 data only by continued research into the critical care of the burn patient.
We document lower cognitive performance and reductions in brain structural integrity among adolescents with MetS, thus suggesting that even relatively short-term impairments in metabolism, in the absence of clinically manifest vascular disease, may give rise to brain complications. In view of these alarming results, it is plausible that obesity-associated metabolic disease, short of type 2 diabetes mellitus, may be mechanistically linked to lower the academic and professional potential of adolescents. Although obesity may not be enough to stir clinicians or even parents into action, these results in adolescents strongly argue for an early and comprehensive intervention. We propose that brain function be introduced among the parameters that need to be evaluated when considering early treatment of childhood obesity.
A stepped-care approach is recommended. The first step in providing an effective intervention among many regular amphetamine users, particularly those attending non-treatment settings, may include provision of: a structured assessment of amphetamine use and related problems; self-help material; and regular monitoring of amphetamine use and related harms. Regular amphetamine users who present to treatment settings could be offered two sessions of CBT, while people with moderate to severe levels of depression may best be offered four sessions of CBT for amphetamine use from the outset, with further treatment for amphetamine use and/or depression depending on response. Pharmacotherapy and/or longer-term psychotherapy may be suitable for non-responders. An RCT of a stepped-care approach among regular amphetamine users is suggested.
Marginal changes in programs targeted directly at children are significantly more effective at further reducing pediatric TB morbidity and mortality than the same changes in programs targeted at adults with the indirect goal of reducing spread to children. Marginal increases in the number of children who enter treatment are far more effective at decreasing morbidity and mortality than equivalent marginal increases in treatment effectiveness. Unfortunately, declining insurance coverage and increasing restrictions on services to immigrants have made it harder for those who are at greatest risk of TB to get medical care. Marginal increases in preventive therapy rates substantially reduce future pediatric TB cases and deaths among children with TB infection and human immunodeficiency virus.
Routine calcium supplementation seems to be a promising intervention for pregnant women at risk of developing preeclampsia or have low calcium intake, but these findings need to be confirmed with a trial with adequate power in different settings. In populations with high incidence of nutritional anemia routine iron and folate supplementation should be recommended during ante-natal care. It is unclear at this stage if adding vitamin A to iron and folate supplementation in anemia prevalent areas provides further benefits. There is inadequate data on the benefits or harms of routine iron or folate supplementation in adequately nourished populations. With regard to other micronutrient supplementation, such as zinc, magnesium and fish oil, randomized controlled trials with sufficient power to detect clinically important differences in maternal and infant outcomes are needed.
The studies varied greatly in quantity of mouthwash solution used in rinsing, length of rinsing, and treatment frequency and period. CHX mouthwash solution had short-term effect on salivary MS. Most of studies evaluating CHX gel and varnish used a concentration of 1%. The 1% CHX gel showed a significant reduction through intensive treatment (3-4 daily applications over 2 days) or through daily application for 10 and 14 days. It cannot be asserted that 1% CHX varnish provides better results when applied intensively as compared to applications conducted at intervals of 1 or more months. Treatment using 1% CHX varnish displays large variations in the level and length of decreased MS levels. Despite variability in results, 40% CHX varnish has a greater effect on the period of decreased MS levels than does 1% CHX varnish. Studies did not show a statistically significant difference between the gel and the varnish. The effects of CHX treatment must be monitored, given sharp individual variability in response to this treatment.
There is substantial evidence to support cognitive-linguistic therapies for people with language deficits after left hemisphere stroke. New evidence supports training for apraxia after left hemisphere stroke. The evidence supports visuospatial rehabilitation for deficits associated with visual neglect after right hemisphere stroke. There is substantial evidence to support cognitive rehabilitation for people with TBI, including strategy training for mild memory impairment, strategy training for postacute attention deficits, and interventions for functional communication deficits. The overall analysis of 47 treatment comparisons, based on class I studies included in the current and previous review, reveals a differential benefit in favor of cognitive rehabilitation in 37 of 47 (78.7%) comparisons, with no comparison demonstrating a benefit in favor of the alternative treatment condition. Future research should move beyond the simple question of whether cognitive rehabilitation is effective, and examine the therapy factors and patient characteristics that optimize the clinical outcomes of cognitive rehabilitation.
This study confirms that quinine is efficacious in the prevention of nocturnal leg cramps. However, its benefit may not be as large as reported from the pooling of published studies alone. Given the side effect profile of quinine, nonpharmacologic therapy (e.g., regular passive stretching of the affected muscle) is the best first-line treatment. For persons who find this ineffective and whose quality of life is significantly affected, a trial of quinine is warranted. Prescribing physicians must closely monitor the risks and benefits in individual patients. Publication bias is present in this area even though there is controversy about the role of quinine in the treatment of leg cramps. To minimize the possibility of this bias, persons performing medication-related meta-analyses should seek high-quality unpublished data from drug regulatory agencies and pharmaceutical companies.
The significantly higher incidence of PDPH after spinal anaesthesia with 26-gauge Quincke needles compared to the 27-gauge Quincke and the 26-gauge Atraucan group confirmed the importance of both needle diameter and design of its tip. The Atraucan cannula has not been examined in a controlled study (in comparison with Quincke needle of the same diameter) before. In accordance with other investigators we found patient's age and number of puncture attempts as additional predictors of PDPH. Consequent bed rest, however, was not able to reduce its incidence. Our studies reveal the poor compliance of patients with regard to mobilization/immobilization, a problem which possibly has not been considered enough in former studies examining the influence of bed rest on PDPH. Based on the literature and the present findings, we recommend using thin needles with atraumatic tips for spinal anaesthesia if possible. Recumbency presents an avoidable stress for patients as well as medical staff and should no longer be ordered.
zafirlukast is an effective and well tolerated agent for preventive monotherapy in mild to moderate persistent asthma. Emerging data indicate benefit of the drug when added to low-dosage inhaled corticosteroids and show that it may be a viable alternative to inhaled adjunctive treatments and increased corticosteroid dosages in some patients. Although inhaled fluticasone propionate and salmeterol have been associated with greater clinical improvement than zafirlukast in clinical studies, compliance considerations and the confirmed clinical efficacy relative to placebo of the drug denote zafirlukast as an effective alternative in treatment programmes based on individualised therapy. As experience with zafirlukast accumulates, it is expected that the drug will be positioned more definitively in national and international treatment guidelines.
The face and neck respond best to all therapeutic approaches, while the acral areas are least responsive. For generalized vitiligo, phototherapy with UVB radiation is most effective with the fewest side effects; PUVA is the second best choice.Topical corticosteroids are the preferred drugs for localized vitiligo. They may be replaced by topical immunomodulators which display comparable effectiveness and fewer side effects. The effectiveness of vitamin D analogues is controversial with limited data. Surgical therapy can be very successful, but requires an experienced surgeon and is very demanding of time and facilities, thus limiting its widespread use. L-phenylalanine therapy appears effective on the face but enjoys neither widespread use nor extensive data support. No single therapy for vitiligo can be regarded as the most effective as the success of each treatment modality depends on the type and location of vitiligo.
The clinical effectiveness data for population subgroups used to inform the multiparameter evidence synthesis and cost-effectiveness modelling were, in places, limited and this should be borne in mind when interpreting the findings of this review. Trials were often not designed to determine clinical effectiveness in population subgroups and hence, although the direction of effect was clear, estimates of differences in symptom duration tended to be subject to greater uncertainty in subgroups. Despite some concerns, the use of NIs in at-risk populations appeared to be a cost-effective approach for the treatment of influenza. Well-designed observational studies might also be considered to evaluate the clinical course of influenza in terms of complications, hospitalisation, mortality and quality of life, as well as the impact of NIs.
Use of supplemental oxygen at pulse oximetry saturations of 96% to 99% did not cause additional progression of prethreshold ROP but also did not significantly reduce the number of infants requiring peripheral ablative surgery. A subgroup analysis suggested a benefit of supplemental oxygen among infants who have prethreshold ROP without plus disease, but this finding requires additional study. Supplemental oxygen increased the risk of adverse pulmonary events including pneumonia and/or exacerbations of chronic lung disease and the need for oxygen, diuretics, and hospitalization at 3 months of corrected age. Although the relative risk/benefit of supplemental oxygen for each infant must be individually considered, clinicians need no longer be concerned that supplemental oxygen, as used in this study, will exacerbate active prethreshold ROP.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and drugs in the group of other antidepressants were associated with an increased risk of several adverse outcomes compared with tricyclic antidepressants. Among individual drugs, trazodone, mirtazapine, and venlafaxine were associated with the highest risks for some outcomes. As this is an observational study, it is susceptible to confounding by indication, channelling bias, and residual confounding, so differences in characteristics between patients prescribed different antidepressant drugs that could account for some of the associations between the drugs and the adverse outcomes may remain. Further research is needed to confirm these findings, but the risks and benefits of different antidepressants should be carefully evaluated when these drugs are prescribed to older people.
Mechanisms of injury are age related, with younger children sustaining C-spine injuries as a result of motor vehicle-related trauma and older adolescents commonly injured during sporting activities. C-spine injuries in children most commonly involve the upper C-spine, but complete lesions of the cord are associated more frequently with lower C-spine injuries. The type of C-spine injury is related to the mechanism of injury: SCIWORA is associated with sporting activities and child abuse, C-spine dislocations most commonly result from motor vehicle-related trauma (especially among pedestrians), and C-spine fractures occur most commonly as a result of falls and dives. Predictors of mortality include younger age, motor vehicle-related mechanism, C1 dislocations, high ISS greater than 25, and associated CHI. A high index of suspicion for SCIWORA is essential when evaluating adolescents with neck trauma associated with sporting injuries or victims of child abuse.
Results support the hypothesis that psychosocial factors in the work environment play a significant role in indoor air problems at workplaces. The survey data can be used as a reference database for future studies, and in occupational health care practice when the working conditions of individual workplaces are estimated. The MM-40 could be useful as a practical screening method in field work for analysing the role of the psychosocial work environment among the different background factors of an indoor air problem. However, in order to interpret and evaluate the significance of the results concerning a single workplace, more information on the organisation is needed, as well as cooperation and discussions with the staff. Further studies of the reliability and validity of the psychosocial questions in MM-40 are also needed.
In the DCCT, the long-term benefits of intensive insulin treatment greatly outweighed the risks of early worsening. Although no case of early worsening was associated with serious visual loss, our results are consistent with previous reports of sight-threatening worsening when intensive treatment is initiated in patients with long-standing poor glycemic control, particularly if retinopathy is at or past the moderate nonproliferative stage. Ophthalmologic monitoring before initiation of intensive treatment and at 3-month intervals for 6 to 12 months thereafter seems appropriate for such patients. In patients whose retinopathy is already approaching the high-risk stage, it may be prudent to delay the initiation of intensive treatment until photocoagulation can be completed, particularly if hemoglobin A1c is high.
The following screening protocol is recommended: (1) Neonates of less than 1000-g BW: initial US on days 3 to 5 (should identify at least 75% of cases of IVH and some PVE abnormalities); second US on days 10 to 14 (should detect at least 84% of IVH and identify early hydrocephalus and early cyst formation); third scan on day 28 (should detect all cases of IVH, as well as assess PVE and ventricular size); and final scan before discharge from the hospital (should detect approximately 20% of significant late-onset lesions). (2) Neonates of 1000- to 1250-g BW: initial US at days 3 to 5 (should detect at least 40% of significant abnormalities); a second scan at day 28 (should detect at least 70% of significant abnormalities); and a predischarge scan (should detect all late-onset significant lesions). (3) Neonates of 1251- to 1500-g BW: an initial scan at days 3 to 5; and a second scan before discharge from the hospital if the clinical course is complicated. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2000;154:822-826
We reported previously that infants who were fed an unsupplemented formula or one with DHA or with both DHA and ARA through 12 months or were breastfed showed no differences in mental and motor development, but those who were fed DHA without ARA had lower vocabulary scores on a standardized, parent-report instrument at 14 months of age when compared with infants who were fed the unsupplemented formula or who were breastfed. When the infants were reassessed at 39 months using age-appropriate tests of receptive and expressive language as well as IQ, visual-motor function and visual acuity, no differences among the formula groups or between the formula and breastfed groups were found. The 14-month observation thus may have been a transient effect of DHA (without ARA) supplementation on early vocabulary development or may have occurred by chance. The absence of differences in growth achievement adds to the evidence that DHA with or without ARA supports normal growth in full-term infants. In conclusion, adding both DHA and ARA when supplementing infant formulas with long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids supports visual and cognitive development through 39 months.
Acupuncture as a therapeutic intervention is widely practiced in the United States. Although there have been many studies of its potential usefulness, many of these studies provide equivocal results because of design, sample size, and other factors. The issue is further complicated by inherent difficulties in the use of appropriate controls, such as placebos and sham acupuncture groups. However, promising results have emerged, for example, showing efficacy of acupuncture in adult postoperative and chemotherapy nausea and vomiting and in postoperative dental pain. There are other situations, such as addiction, stroke rehabilitation, headache, menstrual cramps, tennis elbow, fibromyalgia, myofascial pain, osteoarthritis, low back pain, carpal tunnel syndrome, and asthma, in which acupuncture may be useful as an adjunct treatment or an acceptable alternative or be included in a comprehensive management program. Further research is likely to uncover additional areas where acupuncture interventions will be useful.
Based on a quantitative analysis of the literature there is a small but significant effect of 3- to 6-month treatment with 120 to 240 mg of G. biloba extract on objective measures of cognitive function in AD. The drug has not had significant adverse effects in formal clinical trials but there are 2 case reports of bleeding complications. In AD, there are limited and inconsistent data that preclude determining if there are effects on noncognitive behavioral and functional measures as well as on clinician's global rating scales. Further research in the area will need to determine if there are functional improvements and to determine the best dosage. Additional research will be needed to define which ingredients in the ginkgo extract are producing its effect in individuals with AD.
The pooled effects of multiple risk factor intervention on mortality were insignificant and a small, but potentially important, benefit of treatment (about a 10% reduction in mortality) may have been missed. Changes in risk factors were modest, were related to the amount of pharmacological treatment used, and in some cases may have been overestimated because of regression to the mean, lack of intention to treat analyses, habituation to blood pressure measurement, and use of self reports of smoking. Interventions using personal or family counselling and education with or without pharmacological treatments seem to be more effective at reducing risk factors and therefore mortality in high risk hypertensive populations. The evidence suggests that such interventions implemented through standard health education methods have limited use in the general population. Health protection through fiscal and legislative measure may be more effective.
Management of thyroid diseases during pregnancy requires special considerations because pregnancy induces major changes in thyroid function, and maternal thyroid disease can have adverse effects on the pregnancy and the fetus. Care requires coordination among several healthcare professionals. Avoiding maternal (and fetal) hypothyroidism is of major importance because of potential damage to fetal neural development, an increased incidence of miscarriage, and preterm delivery. Maternal hyperthyroidism and its treatment may be accompanied by coincident problems in fetal thyroid function. Autoimmune thyroid disease is associated with both increased rates of miscarriage, for which the appropriate medical response is uncertain at this time, and postpartum thyroiditis. Fine-needle aspiration cytology should be performed for dominant thyroid nodules discovered in pregnancy. Radioactive isotopes must be avoided during pregnancy and lactation. Universal screening of pregnant women for thyroid disease is not yet supported by adequate studies, but case finding targeted to specific groups of patients who are at increased risk is strongly supported.
Zinc supplementation substantially reduced the incidence of severe and prolonged diarrhea, the 2 important determinants of diarrhea-related mortality and malnutrition. This intervention also substantially reduced the proportion of children who experienced recurrent diarrhea. Prompt measures to improve zinc status of deficient populations are warranted. The potential approaches to achieve this goal include food fortification, dietary diversification, cultivation of plants that are zinc dense or have a decreased concentration of zinc absorption inhibitors, and supplementation of selected groups of children. Future studies should assess the impact of increased zinc intakes on childhood mortality in developing countries. For facilitating intervention, there is a need to obtain reliable estimates of zinc deficiency, particularly in developing countries. The functional consequences of the effect of various doses of zinc on plasma copper levels merits additional study.
There was no influence of the different diets on the plasma concentration of calcium and phosphorus or on the plasma activity of alkaline phosphatase. In urine, there was a tendency towards higher calcium concentrations in the group fed the supplemented formula compared concentrations in the group fed the standard formula. The concentrations of phosphate were not significantly different and, as a consequence, there was a tendency towards a higher Ca/P molar ratio in the group fed the supplemented formula. The data indicate that the calcium absorption might be influenced by the dietary oligosaccharides. Thus, the possible effect of dietary oligosaccharides on calcium homeostasis should be included in the discussion concerning the consequences of the use of dietary oligosaccharides in preterm infant nutrition.
A significant number of clues support the hypothesis that some types of leukoaraiosis may be the result of ischemic injury to the brain. Structural changes affecting the small intraparenchymal cerebral arteries and arterioles that are associated with aging and with stroke risk factors, altered cerebral blood flow autoregulation, and the conditions created by the unique arterial blood supply of the hemispheric white matter each seem to contribute to the development of leukoaraiosis. To the best of our ability to interpret current information, the type of ischemic injury that is most likely responsible for these white matter changes involves transient repeated events characterized by moderate drops in regional cerebral blood flow that induce an incomplete form of infarction. This hypothesis could be tested in appropriate experimental models.
Regular calcium supplementation does not raise the product of calcium and oxalate in urine and the proportion of oxalate to calcium is reduced. The underlying mechanisms of the changes seen in phosphate, calcium, and PTH and the observations on 1,25-(OH)2-cholecalciferol are not clear. Observed changes in phosphate could possibly be part of a calcium regulating feedback loop operating over a period of weeks. In evaluating these mechanisms background seasonal effects are important. It is possible that "programming" of the gut mucosa in terms of calcium transport is a major determinant of the relation between calcium and oxalate concentrations in urine and their relative abundance. Increased oral calcium, in association with a reduction of the relative proportion absorbed, may be pertinent to the prevention of calcium oxalate rich stones.
While there can be uncertainty as to whether specific faecal occult blood tests were performed as screening or diagnostic tests, those performed at home and in younger persons may be relatively less likely to be diagnostic tests that were misclassified as screening. Thus the modest reduced risk associated with faecal occult blood testing in these settings/persons may reflect genuine benefit. However, the presence of a reduced risk associated with a screening faecal occult blood test received in the past, well before a tumour or polyp might bleed enough to allow detection, is compatible with uncontrolled confounding. Interpretation is further complicated by the fact that a number of individuals in the study group who had positive test results underwent limited or no diagnostic testing. Thus our results should be interpreted with considerable caution.
Using a population-based approach it was confirmed that the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of benflumetol and artemether differ markedly. Benflumetol AUC is associated with cure and the effect of benflumetol when coadministered with artemether is to prevent recrudescence. The mode of action of benflumetol is consistent with its longer elimination half-life. A short course of low-dose artemether, which is rapidly absorbed and has a short elimination half-life, produced effective parasite clearance. The complementary pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of benflumetol and artemether was the main rationale for developing a fixed-dose combination. While the 4 x 4 dose regimen is very effective in most endemic areas, the poorer absorption (2.5 fold lower than in China) and the more resistant parasites in Thailand require higher doses of this drug.
The success of this relatively brief intervention demonstrates the importance of using ecological theory and ethnographic research to design interventions that enable participants to alter their behavior in the face of contradictory cultural norms. The intervention focused on interpreting infants' cues, nonfood methods of managing infant behavior, and mother-grandmother negotiations. It was delivered through methods that were familiar and acceptable to adolescent mothers-a mentorship model incorporating home visits and videotape. The skill-oriented aspects of the intervention delivered in a culturally sensitive context may have enabled the young mothers to follow the guidelines that they received from WIC and from their pediatricians. Strategies, such as those used in this intervention, may be effective in promoting other caregiving recommendations, thereby enabling providers to meet the increasing demands from parents for advice regarding children's early growth and development.
Most of the observed household characteristics showed limited potential to predict compliance with a comprehensive, year-long SODIS-promotion campaign; this finding reflects the complexity of behaviour change in the context of household water treatment. However, our findings also suggest that the motivation to adopt new water treatment habits and to acquire new knowledge about drinking water treatment is associated with prior engagements in sanitary hygiene and with the experience of contemporary family health concerns.Household-level factors like the ownership of a latrine, a large proportion of females and the presence of a malnourished child living in a home are easily assessable indicators that SODIS-programme managers could use to identify early adopters in SODIS promotion campaigns.
This assessment of the safety and benefits of ibuprofen can be summarized thus: (1) Ibuprofen at OTC doses has low possibilities of serious GI events, and little prospect of developing renal and associated CV events. Ibuprofen OTC does not represent a risk for developing liver injury especially the irreversible liver damage observed with paracetamol and the occasional liver reactions from aspirin. (2) The pharmacokinetic properties of ibuprofen, especially the short plasma half-life of elimination, lack of development of pathologically related metabolites (e.g. covalent modification of liver proteins by the quinine-imine metabolite of paracetamol or irreversible acetylation of biomolecules by aspirin) are support for the view that these pharmacokinetic and notably metabolic effects of ibuprofen favour its low toxic potential. (3) The multiple actions of ibuprofen in controlling inflammation combine with moderate inhibition of COX-1 and COX-2 and low residence time of the drug in the body may account for the low GI, CV and renal risks from ibuprofen, especially at OTC doses.
1. Bacteria induced basophil histamine release through two ways: immunological (IgE-mediated) and non-immunological (sugar-lectin interactions). 2. Non-immunological interactions played the main role in basophil histamine release induced by bacteria--both in normal individuals and asthmatic patients. 3. Sera of immunized with bacteria animals partially reduced basophil histamine release induced by homologous strains (Tab. 7). 4. An incubation of autologous bacterial strains with asthmatic patients's sera collected after autovaccines treatment has no influence on basophil histamine release induced by these microbes (Tab. 9). 5. There was no correlation between the skin reactivity to bacteria (both in healthy persons and in asthmatic patients) and the intensity of basophil histamine release induced by microbes.
The majority of patients treated with psychotherapy for PTSD in randomized trials recover or improve, rendering these approaches some of the most effective psychosocial treatments devised to date. Several caveats, however, are important in applying these findings to patients treated in the community. Exclusion criteria and failure to address polysymptomatic presentations render generalizability to the population of PTSD patients indeterminate. The majority of patients posttreatment continue to have substantial residual symptoms, and follow-up data beyond very brief intervals have been largely absent. Future research intended to generalize to patients in practice should avoid exclusion criteria other than those a sensible clinician would impose in practice (e.g., schizophrenia), should avoid wait-list and other relatively inert control conditions, and should follow patients through at least 2 years.
This study illustrates the rarity in one patient population of some of the syndromes and categories described in the ILAE classification. Childhood and juvenile absence epilepsies together formed a small proportion. SCTEL and FCC were important etiologic factors for localization related epilepsies. The epilepsy associated with SCTEL was a form of benign epilepsy; epilepsy associated with FCC had remission rates similar to other remote symptomatic epilepsies. Without neuroimaging evidence, these 2 lesions would have been missed and the patients might have been grouped under cryptogenic localization related epilepsy. For this reason, we emphasize the need for neuroimaging in patients with localization related epilepsies with unremarkable clinical findings, before classification into the cryptogenic category. In the absence of neuroimaging, such patients should be classified as "probably cryptogenic."
Though screening is likely to increase identification of intimate partner violence in healthcare settings, rates of identification from screening interventions were low relative to best estimates of prevalence of such violence. It is uncertain whether screening increases effective referral to supportive agencies. Screening does not seem to cause harm in the short term, but harm was measured in only one study. As the primary studies did not detect improved outcomes for women screened for intimate partner violence, there is insufficient evidence for screening in healthcare settings. Studies comparing screening versus case finding, or screening in combination with therapeutic intervention for women's long term wellbeing, are needed to inform the implementation of identification policies in healthcare settings.
The conservative treatment of scoliosis (which includes outpatient physiotherapy, inpatient intensive scoliosis rehabilitation (SIR) and high-correction-effect bracing based on plastercasting) shows an obvious reduction in the rate of surgery in patients with idiopathic scoliosis compared with untreated scoliosis patients. Thus it can be seen that the conservative treatment of scoliosis may reduce the incidence of surgery, which not only causes considerable medical expenses but also carries with it the risk of repeated operations and further complications. In our study, we also found highly significant differences by comparison with the work of a bracing centre in the USA. Therefore, the quality of the bracing itself and the effects of primary correction must receive greater consideration in future scientific studies on the subject of "conservative" treatment of scoliosis.
Optimal inclusion criteria for future adolescent idiopathic scoliosis brace studies consist of: age is 10 years or older when brace is prescribed, Risser 0-2, primary curve angles 25 degrees -40 degrees , no prior treatment, and, if female, either premenarchal or less than 1 year postmenarchal. Assessment of brace effectiveness should include: (1) the percentage of patients who have < or =5 degrees curve progression and the percentage of patients who have > or =6 degrees progression at maturity, (2) the percentage of patients with curves exceeding 45 degrees at maturity and the percentage who have had surgery recommended/undertaken, and (3) 2-year follow-up beyond maturity to determine the percentage of patients who subsequently undergo surgery. All patients, regardless of subjective reports on compliance, should be included in the results (intent to treat). Every study should provide results stratified by curve type and size grouping.
Some meta-analytic procedures could be interpreted to be implemented inadequately in some chronic pain treatment MAs. There is wide variability between individual chronic pain treatment MAs on adequacy of implementation of these procedures. However, the effect sizes of the different MA subgroups demonstrated consistency. This finding indicates that for these MA subgroups, MA results are consistent between authors. In addition, chronic pain MAs, as compared with other groups of MAs, appear to address some of the procedures in a more adequate fashion. Future chronic pain MAs should concentrate on improving the quality of their methods with particular emphasis on the above four procedures. Because of potential validity problems with these results, these data cannot and should not be used to make administrative decisions about previous MAs.
The results show that the cost-effectiveness of screening for amblyopia is dependent on the long-term utility effects of unilateral vision loss. There is limited evidence on any such effect, although our subjective interpretation of the available literature is that the utility effects are likely to be minimal. Any utility study investigating such effects would need to be careful to avoid introducing bias. The reference case model did not represent potential treatment-related utility effects, primarily due to an increased probability of treated children being bullied at school. The evidence indicates that this may be a problem, and additional sensitivity analyses show that small utility decrements from bullying would improve the cost-effectiveness of early screening significantly. A prospective study of the utility effects of bullying would usefully inform the analysis, although such a study would need to be carefully planned in order to distinguish whether the overall incidence of bullying decreases with reduced school-age treatment, or whether it is displaced to other children.
Although the screened group had a higher proportion of patients with pancreatic insufficiency, their growth indices were significantly better than those of the control group during the 13-year follow-up evaluation and, therefore, this randomized clinical trial of early CF diagnosis must be interpreted as unequivocally positive. Our conclusions did not change when the height and weight data before 4 years of age for the controls detected by unblinding were included in the analysis. Also, comparison of growth outcomes after 4 years of age in all subjects showed persistence of the significant differences. Therefore, selection bias has been eliminated as a potential explanation. In addition, the results show that severe malnutrition persists after delayed diagnosis of CF and that catch-up may not be possible. We conclude that early diagnosis of CF through neonatal screening combined with aggressive nutritional therapy can result
On the basis of level II evidence in 1 study and level III evidence in 10 studies, DALK is equivalent to PK for the outcome measure of BSCVA, particularly if the surgical technique yields minimal residual host stromal thickness. There is no advantage to DALK for refractive error outcomes. Although improved graft survival in DALK has yet to be demonstrated, postoperative data indicate that DALK is superior to PK for preservation of ECD. Endothelial immune graft rejection cannot occur after DALK, which may simplify long-term management of DALK eyes compared with PK eyes. As an extraocular procedure, DALK has important theoretic safety advantages, and it is a good option for visual rehabilitation of corneal disease in patients whose endothelium is not compromised.
This study was designed to test a method that allows objective comparison of outcomes of different methods of corneal replacement for different risk categories. Analysis of this small dataset supports the validity of the concept and suggests that the Risk Score is a useful descriptive statistic. With a sufficient sample size, statistically significant evidence of the optimum management method for an individual patient with a particular risk profile could be determined such that a prospective patient's preoperative RS could be used to assist management decisions. In particular, data allowing separation of different immunosuppression regimes would be useful. Functional outcomes such as visual acuity would be more significant clinically than the survival end point used in this study and the system also could be adapted to different follow-up periods.
Thiazolides are metabolically stable, highly bound to plasma proteins and are associated with a favorable toxicology profile. Phase II clinical trials have demonstrated efficacy and safety of nitazoxanide added to peginterferon with or without ribavirin in treating patients with chronic hepatitis C. More limited clinical data indicated potential in treating chronic hepatitis B, and three randomized controlled trials have demonstrated efficacy in reducing the duration of viral gastroenteritis. New generation thiazolides with the nitro group of nitazoxanide replaced by a non-reducible group are not active against anaerobes but retain broad-spectrum activity against viruses. Further studies are needed. Research indicates that these drugs may play an important and complementary role in combination with other classes of antiviral drugs.
This report sheds new light on adolescent drug experiences in Panama, the five Spanish-heritage countries of Central America, and the Dominican Republic, and presents the first estimates of school-level clustering of youthful drug involvement in these seven countries. Placed in relation to school survey findings from North America and Europe, these estimates indicate lower levels of drug involvement in these seven countries of the Americas. For example, in the United States of America 70% of surveyed youths had tried alcohol and 59% had smoked tobacco. By comparison, in these seven countries, only 51% have tried alcohol and only 29% have smoked tobacco. Future research will help to clarify explanations for the observed variations across different countries of the world. In the meantime, strengthening of school-based and other prevention efforts in the seven-country PACARDO area may help these countries slow the spread of youthful drug involvement, reduce school-level clustering, and avoid the periodic epidemics of illegal drug use that have been experienced in North America.
This study did not demonstrate a clear overall benefit of early fixation of acute scaphoid fractures beyond the decrease in the rate of a change in treatment because of a delayed union at twelve weeks. Early internal fixation of minimally displaced or nondisplaced fractures of the scaphoid waist, which would heal in a cast, could lead to overtreatment of a large proportion of such fractures, exposing such patients to avoidable surgical risk. Thus, we have adopted a program of so-called aggressive conservative treatment, whereby we carefully assess fracture-healing with plain radiographs, and computed tomography scans if necessary, after six to eight weeks of cast immobilization and recommend surgical fixation with or without bone-grafting at that time if a gap is identified at the fracture site. Such an approach should result in fracture union in over 95% of such patients.
Considerable caries benefit has accrued to those Morayshire rural children who have received naturally fluoridated water (at 1 ppm) throughout their lives, as compared to their socioeconomically similar, nonfluoridated rural counterparts. Furthermore, in spite of all but two subjects claiming to have brushed regularly with fluoridated dentifrice (and no evidence of the availability of nonfluoridated toothpaste being purchasable in the five townships), only borderline mild fluorosis disadvantages have been noted clinically, and none by the subjects' own aesthetic perceptions. Finally, no evidence was found to suggest any delay in permanent tooth eruption patterns of the F subjects. It would seem appropriate therefore, that adjustment of Scots' drinking waters' natural fluoride levels to 1 ppm should be pursued to extend similar dental advantages to the vast majority of that population (both young and old) which, it is well documented, has the worst dental health of mainland UK.
[Finished in 2.4s]